6 of Lionel Messi's Greatest Fashion Moments
Lionel Messi isn't just the world's greatest soccer player, he's also something of an interesting fashion case. 
From the polka-dot suit he donned on Monday to accept his fourth Ballon d'Or to the floppy Beatles-esque haircut he rocked in his earlier days to his frequent resemblance of a teenage skater, the Argentine goal machine keeps us entertained with more than just his on-field heroics. 
SEE ALSO: Messi's Year of Dominance: Watch All 91 Goals in One Epic Mashup

Buckle your Gucci seatbelt and take a ride through some of Messi's greatest fashion triumphs below.
1. The 'When You Score 91 Goals in a Calendar Year, You Can Wear Whatever You Damn Well Please' Look

Messi was resplendent in this reverse-dalmatian polka-dot number when accepting the Ballon d'Or on Monday, sparking plenty of chatter and snide comments on Twitter. But when you score goals at the record-setting rate he did in 2012, you've pretty much earned the right to do whatever you want. (Getty Images/AFP/Fabrice Coffrini)
2. The 'Hairy Middle Schooler' Look

In part because he stands just 5-foot-7, Messi often ends up looking like a well-built, hyper-focused middle schooler. He and his FC Barcelona teammates wore these T-shirts in 2011 to honor ailing teammate Eric Abidal, but no one pulled it off quite like Lionel. (Getty Images/AFP/Josep Lago)
3. The 'Fashion-Forward Shepherd' Look

This is what Messi wore to the pre-Ballon d'Or ceremony press conference for award nominees on Monday. We're not quite sure what's going on here — it's sort of a hybrid hoodie/outdoor-wear/knit deal, and he seems to sporting a deep-V white tee underneath. Whatever this is, it's safe to say the polka-dot suit he changed in to later was an upgrade. (Getty Images/Getty Images Sport/Christof Koepsel)
4. The 'Beatles Mop-Top' Look

This was Messi's look at the 2010 World Cup in South Africa, calling to mind the style of four young Liverpool lads back in the 1960s. The Flea's on-field wizardry was all the more magical when he was flummoxing defenders with this shaggy 'do instead of the more conservative coif he sports today. (Getty Images/Getty Images Sport/Richard Heathcote)
5. The 'Straight Up Speedo' Look

Yes, we totally get that the Speedo is an accepted form of male swimming attire outside the United States. But for us here in the U.S., it's still a goofy way to roll — especially, for some reason, when you're Lionel Messi. This is our hero relaxing in Rio de Janeiro with then-girlfriend and now-wife Antonella Roccuzzo in 2010. (Getty Images/AFP)
6. The 'School You With My Eyes Closed' Look

Messi's fashion innovations extend to the pitch itself, too — here he finds a new way to wear his Barca colors. Or perhaps, for (arguably) the greatest player of all time, having full visibility just makes the game a little too easy. (Getty Images/AFP/Lluis Gene)
But Messi's outstanding fashion moments don't end here. For example, he also apparently loves wearing this one pair of ripped, acid-washed jeans. 
Of course, while Messi has exerted four years of player-of-the-year dominance over rival Cristiano Ronaldo, this photo of a murse-wielding CR7 proves that Messi still does have some work to do when it comes to bizarre fashion choices. 
Thumbnail image via Getty Images/AFP/Fabrice Coffrini
http://mashable.com/2013/01/07/lionel-messi-fashion-moments/