Beyonce Announces Destiny's Child Comeback
UPDATE: Listen to the World Premiere of Destiny's Child's 'Nuclear' Right Now

Out of nowhere, Destiny's Child is back after splitting up in 2005. 
Beyoncé Knowles, Kelly Rowland and Michelle Williams have reunited to release Love Songs, a new album slated for a Jan. 29 release, Beyonce announced online Thursday.
"I AM SO PROUD TO ANNOUNCE THE FIRST ORIGINAL DESTINY'S CHILD MUSIC IN EIGHT YEARS!" Beyonce's statement with the above photo said.
Destiny's Child's Facebook page also shared the news with a link at which people can pre-order the new album for $9.99. Love Songs will feature a new song ("Nuclear") and the group's older romantic songs from 1997 to 2004.
Beyonce is scheduled to perform at the Super Bowl on Feb. 3. While details of her performance are unknown, it's possible that her Destiny's Child cohorts could join her.
SEE ALSO: Beyonce HBO Doc Will Feature Footage Captured on Her Laptop

Love Songs infuses recordings from six albums — four of the Destiny's Child's studio albums, one of Rowland's albums and one from the group's remix album: 
1. "Cater 2 U" from 2004's Destiny Fulfilled
2. "Killing Time" from 1998's Destiny's Child
3. "Second Nature" from Destiny's Child
4. "Heaven" from 2002' Simply Deep
5. "Now That She’s Gone" from 1999's The Writing's On The Wall
6. "Brown Eyes" from 2001's Survivor
7. "If" from Destiny Fulfilled
8. "Emotion" from Survivor
9. "If You Leave" (featuring Next) from The Writing's On The Wall
10. "T­Shirt" from Destiny Fulfilled
11. "Temptation" from The Writing's On The Wall
12. "Say My Name" (Timbaland remix) from 2002's This Is The Remix
13. "Love" from Destiny Fulfilled
14. "Nuclear" from 2013's Love Songs
Sony Music offshoots — Music World Entertainment, Columbia Records and Legacy Recordings — are in charge of unleashing Love Songs at the end of month.
BONUS:  In February 2012, Beyonce and Jay-Z used another Tumblr blog to release the first pictures of Blue Ivy Carter:
More than a month after Beyonce and Jay-Z welcomed their first child to the world, pictures of the newborn, Blue Ivy Carter,  emerged. A Tumblr blog titled "HelloBlueIvyCarter" popped up on Friday night, displaying five photos of the baby.
Blue Ivy was born sometime on Jan. 7, 2012. The text on the new Tumblr blog reads, "We welcome you to share in our joy. Thank you for respecting our privacy during this this beautiful time in our lives. The Carter Family."
She is reportedly named after two album titles: Jay-Z's The Blueprint and Beyonce's 4, which is IV in Roman numerals.
Photo and thumbnail via Beyonce.com. Gallery photos courtesy Hello Blue Ivy Carter
http://mashable.com/2013/01/10/destinys-child-new-album-love-songs-tumblr/