Bill Clinton at CES 2013: Don't Take Tech for Granted
LAS VEGAS — Former U.S. President Bill Clinton joined Samsung on stage at 2013 International CES in Las Vegas to discuss the power of the Internet and the need to grow its infrastructure in the U.S.
President Clinton — the brand ambassador for the Samsung Hope for Children program, which will provide education to 2.5 million children — told attendees "technology can help overcome challenges that are not even economic."
"I've been backstage looking at all the new devices, and I was reminded that when I was president, the average cellphone weighed 5 pounds," Clinton said. "The day I took the oath of office, a grand total of 50 sites were on the Internet. More have been added since I started talking."
But he noted South Korea is now number one in the world for computer download speeds, and the U.S. has fallen to number 15.
"Our speeds are one-fourth of theirs, and we have fallen off the map," Clinton said. "Think about all the basic things we are taking for granted. If the screen went dark or the microphone failed ... if you get bored from my speech, you can get water — but I have spent time in part of the world where you can't do that. Mobile technology is doing so much now to lift the poor."
He said he is impressed by how much technology is affecting our lives, and how it can be used for the future. Although he said he no longer drives, someone recently told him to sit in his Ford car, and told its built-in infotainment system to provide directions to the nearest Chinese restaurant.
"I got a map about how to drive there, which I didn't know before," he said. "I keep thinking about this in terms of the future. If you look at what the Arab Spring did to use social networks ... and how social media has been used among my wife's leadership ... there is a lot we can do to overcome challenges."
Photo by Mashable, Nina Frazier
The former president takes the stage at the Samsung keynote at CES 2013.
Mr. Clinton talks about his Hope for Children program.
Clinton noted South Korea is now number one in the world for computer download speeds, and the U.S. has fallen to number 15.
"Our speeds are one-fourth of theirs, and we have fallen off the map." 
Infotainment system: "I got a map about how to drive there, which I didn't know before."
"When I was president, the average cellphone weighed 5 pounds."
"Our [broadband] speeds are one-fourth of theirs, and we have fallen off the map."
"If you get bored from my speech, you can get water -- but I have spent time in part of the world where you can't do that."
"The day I took the Oath of Office, a grand total of 50 sites were on the Internet. More have been added since I started talking."
http://mashable.com/2013/01/09/clinton-ces/