Bookacoach Helps You Find a Sports Coach You Can Trust
Playing sports has become a standard a rite of childhood passage for most kids, right up there with learning to tie a shoe and snagging that first kiss. But disturbing news events increasingly create anxiety for parents — how can you be sure a coach actually knows what they're doing? Or worse, what if they're actually a predator hidden behind a helpful, athletic facade? 
The startup bookacoach aims to quell that anxiety for parents, keep kids safe and allow coaches to quickly and easily verify their credibility. 
Bookacoach is a web app that allows kids and parents to book private lessons with coaches who have signed up with the service. To become a member of the site, however, coaches must undergo annual background checks, meaning you know you'll be leaving your kid in safe, responsible hands. 
“It’s our mission and number one priority to become the safest place to find quality coaches,” says co-founder and CEO Kevin MacCauley.
But bookacoach adds value beyond just background checks. Parents can schedule lessons and pay for them online, as well as post coach reviews to help families looking for instruction later on. 
The site is currently free for coaches to use, but parents are charged a 10% transaction fee on lessons they book through the site. Bookacoach was originally founded in the fall of 2011 by MacCauley, Myles Grote and Marcus Gross, but just launched in late December with a formal announcement going out just this week. Since becoming live, the site has signed up more than 100 coaches from eight states, according to Grote. 
Bookacoach is actually just one of a number of examples where technology is helping to bring new efficiency and safety to youth sports. The mobile app GameChanger lets coaches apply Moneyball style analytics to kids' basketball and baseball teams. Later this year, helmet-maker Riddell will introduce a product that tracks, measures and reports the blows kids' heads sustain in pee wee football. 
Thumbnail image courtesy Flickr, dpstyles
http://mashable.com/2013/01/10/bookacoach/