Danny DeVito at CES 2013: Both He and His TrollFoot Love Twitter

LAS VEGAS — Actor/Director Danny DeVito has been entertaining us for decades, from his early role as a mental patient in One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest to the irascible Louie De Palma on Taxi, to his current role as the somewhat-bent Frank Reynolds on FX’s It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia. Whatever medium he's in — TV, Film, the stage — DeVito fully embraces it. He takes a similar approach to technology and social media, as he explained to Mashable in our interview with him on the floor of CES 2013.
The 68-year-old actor sat down with us after an entertaining chat on the Panasonic stage at CES 2013. He was there to promote the Blu-ray release of his film Hoffa, in which he starred and directed. DeVito explained that the technology "kicks ass" because it gives filmmakers the opportunity to go back in and make the movie "a little bit better."
An avid Twitter user (@DannyDeVito), DeVito has posted dozens of pictures of his bare foot in exotic and international locations. Each one is accompanied by the hashtag #TrollFoot, a reference to a live stage show from the "It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia" team.
DeVito told us he loves how Twitter lets him connect with other people, gives voice to different views and can act as a force for social good. Yes, he writes his own tweets.
While on stage, DeVito talked about shooting digitally and spending time editing his next movie in Final Cut. He's well aware of the benefits and pitfalls of the digitization of cinema, but when asked how he would combat movie piracy, DeVito suggested telling teens it's as dangerous for them as unprotected sex.

He told us his children encouraged him to get an iPhone and get on social media, but does not spend much time on Facebook. "I have a page, but I don’t participate. Twitter is really easy."
When we asked DeVito what the Taxi cast would have done with Twitter if the social platform were around in the 1970s, he said he thought the late Andy Kaufman, who played Latka, would have loved it.
He also uses Apple’s Siri intelligent assistant software, but added, "Siri is a ball-breaker."
Check out the video above for the full interview.
He was there to promote the Blu-ray release of his film Hoffa, in which he starred and directed.
An avid Twitter user (@DannyDeVito), DeVito has posted dozens of pictures of his bare foot in exotic and international locations. Each one is accompanied by the hashtag #TrollFoot, a reference to a live stage show from the "It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia" team.
Yes, he writes his own tweets.
http://mashable.com/2013/01/10/danny-devito-ces2013/