David Bowie's Album Tops iTunes Charts in 17 Countries Before Release
David Bowie, the 66-year-old rocker who released his first song in a decade this week, is on top of the music world again — at least on iTunes. His forthcoming The Next Day album has already claimed the top spot on 17 countries' iTunes Store Top 10 Albums charts.
The album is number one Wednesday in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Greece, Iceland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland. 
SEE ALSO: How Music Rules Twitter | MTV Reveals 13 Artists to Watch

The Next Day, which is scheduled for a March 12 release, is also in the top 10 lists in 5 other countries: the United States, Australia, Japan, New Zealand and Norway. 
Apple publicly releases iTunes rankings for 22 countries, so Bowie is on every top 10 list. 
Bowie's new song, "Where Are We Now?", tops the singles charts in 8 countries. 

Your music library is going to see a redesign in iTunes 11. Browsing is much more intuitive, and can be sorted more carefully based on what you’re looking for in your collection.
When you select an album in iTunes 11 that album will expand in place. Say, for instance, you click on Maroon 5’s ‘Overexposed.” Clicking on the cover art for the album will open a drop-down viewable display of the entire album complete with star ratings, pricing, and play time for each track.
The MiniPlayer in iTunes is seeing an upgrade. Now you can see what songs are coming next in your playlist by tapping on an icon on the miniature window, as well as search your music collection for new tracks.
Need helping finding out abut new music? Now selecting an album, genre, or artist you like will bring up suggestions on music that Apple thinks you might also be excited about.
Preview a new awesome song yesterday, but don’t remember what it was today? A new Preview History feature in iTunes lets you see what you’ve checked out on your computer as well as your mobile device while you’re out on the town.  Preview History is synced across devices using iCloud, so if you listen to a tune on your phone you can buy it later on your home computer or vice versa.
Facebook integration lets you keep on top of what apps your friends like in the App Store.
iCloud  will make purchases available instantly across all of your devices, and will allow you to do things such as start a movie on your iPad and  pick up where you left off on your computer when you get home.
Photo via Bryan Bedder/Getty Images
http://mashable.com/2013/01/09/david-bowie-itunes-new-album-next-day/