Didn't Get Obama Inauguration Tickets? Blame Ticketmaster
Looking for tickets to President Barack Obama's inaugural ball or parade? You may be out of luck, thanks to a Ticketmaster email snafu. 
Ticketmaster began selling tickets to the presidential inaugural ball and parade on Sunday following an e-mail invitation to customers — but they weren't supposed to be available until Monday morning, per earlier White House statements.
In a follow-up email to customers sent late Sunday, the company said the invitation to buy tickets was a misfire.
"During testing of our email system tonight, you may have inadvertently received an invitation to purchase tickets for 2013 Inauguration events, including the Inaugural Ball or the Inaugural Parade," read the follow-up from Ticketmaster. "Public tickets to these events were originally scheduled to go on sale tomorrow morning — you received the email tonight in error, and Ticketmaster takes responsibility for this mistake."
That email said "a significant number" of the available public tickets were gone, but Ticketmaster's website currently shows zero tickets available — meaning all the tickets are likely gone. It went on to say that tickets are "first-come, first-served" including "those sold tonight." 
Translation: If you were waiting for Monday morning to snatch up your inaugural ball or parade tickets and didn't see the errant Sunday email, you're likely out of luck, beaten to the punch by those who checked their inboxes. 
Mashable's Jeremy Cabalona, who managed to get inaugural ball and parade tickets on Sunday, said that the process was far from smooth. Instead, it involved a cat-and-mouse game of refreshing Ticketmaster's page in the hopes that it would switch from "sold out" to "available," which in his case it did after approximately three hours.
Sunday's first Ticketmaster email, the invitation to buy inaugural ball and parade tickets, said the following:
"The Presidential Inaugural Committee is pleased to offer you the opportunity to attend the Inaugural festivities. This email contains the information you'll need to join us here in Washington, D.C., for the official Inaugural events. This email contains specific information for your access to Inaugural tickets. Below, please find a link, your account number and account password for our secure ticketing website. You can access your tickets and input your address and billing information from the link."
Obama's inauguration ceremony is set for Jan. 21. Tickets for the ceremony itself are available through members of Congress.
Mashable has reached out to Ticketmaster and will update this post with any response. Did you lose out on tickets because of Ticketmaster's early email? Share in the comments.
Photo courtesy of Flickr, Pete Souza/The White House
http://mashable.com/2013/01/07/ticketmaster-inauguration/