Edward Norton Wants to Give You Will Ferrell's Autographed Cowbell
Actor Edward Norton is fighting a less intense — yet worthwhile — battle than he did in Fight Club as part of the Mozilla Firefox Challenge, which pits him against other celebrities to raise the most money for their respective charities. 
And they're using Norton's crowd-sourced fundraising platform CrowdRise to rake in the money. Each celebrity created a project to let people make small donations and win prizes.
Some $600,000 has been raised so far for these three project prizes alone: Jimmy Kimmel's offer to punch your friend in the stomach, Seth Rogen's signed ukulele and Will Ferrell's autographed "beautiful cow bell." Other celebrity projects come from Jason Bateman, Kristen Bell, Jordin Sparks, Danny Devito and more. 
We caught up with Norton to discuss CrowdRise, the challenge and its quirky projects. 
Your fundraising project for the Mozilla Firefox Challenge asks for a $29 donation to be entered to win an iChat with you. What details can you give us about the iChat?
The iChats have been popular and I'm not the only one who has used that incentive. 
Paul Rudd's done a bunch of [iChats] ... I think he's usually naked for his. 
I can't promise that, but mine have been great. It's actually been kind of mind-blowing how high-quality the conversations I've had with people have been. We've actually gotten great ideas for how to make CrowdRise better. Two of the people who won chats with us we wanted to hire.  
What are your thoughts on Will Ferrell's cowbell?
Will's cowbell is by now legend. I wouldn't waste too much time on anyone who was like, "What's that? I don't get it." It's hard to think of a scenario in life not improved by its pleasing gong.
And Jimmy Kimmel's punches? Which friend of yours would you let Jimmy punch?
Kimmel is no Manny Pacquiao, but he's not Butterball either.
I wouldn't be afraid personally but I wouldn't let him hit my sister. 
Do you have any fun stories to share with us about CrowdRise's adventures last year?
CrowdRise's growth is fairly astonishing. Just over two years ago it was four of us in a living room and so when I'm walking through the airport and see people wearing our T-shirts, let alone surf the site and see the numbers people are raising and the creativity they're bringing to the game, it's pretty amazing. 
David Axelrod said he'd shave his famed mustache if he raised over $1 million for epilepsy research, and he did it. President Obama donated, which was a highlight. 
We're thinking maybe we popped [Obama]'s crowdfunding cherry ... which is nice.
We were very inspired by all these projects: We're in the middle of our second year of the Mozilla Firefox Challenge, which has been amazing again. We love Mozilla because they're built on the same ethos that CrowdRise is ... that many people coming together can do great things to create a better society. They've put up $200,000 in prize money to drive grassroots fundraising for hundreds of charities and they're going to leverage their money many times over. Most people don't even realize that Mozilla is a non-profit foundation and that Firefox is a community-created browser created by over 40,000 volunteers who believe in free and open access to the Internet. We're big fans of what they do and the way they do it, and we love that they're helping us promote the power of the crowd.
How would you explain the platform to a friend who has never heard of it?
CrowdRise kicks ass because it gives a huge boost to people who believe that a little bit of effort by lots of people actually will change the world for the better.  And those are my favorite people.  Those are the people I like to hang out with and who inspire me. To people who have never heard of it I say CrowdRise is the best platform on the planet from which to support the charities and causes that you care about.  
It's been successful because CrowdRise is doing much more than providing rudimentary engineering of collecting donations ... we're delivering a new game theory about how to leverage resources.  And people have more fun hanging out with us. What's next for CrowdRise and for yourself in 2013? The plan is to continue to provide the most creative, fun and cost-efficient platform to raise money for charity and to keep trying to come up with new ways to engage people in the experience of contributing to collective social action.  Crowdfunding is exploding and we're excited to be right in the middle of it. 
I'm going to Germany to make another movie with Wes Anderson next week, which is about as much fun as you can have with your clothes on. Photo by Pascal Le Segretain/Getty Images
http://mashable.com/2013/01/09/crowdrise-edward-norton-mozilla-firefox-challenge/