Everything You Need to Know About 'Mint the Coin'
If you follow anybody remotely interested in politics on Twitter, you've probably seen a reference to "mint the coin" fly across your stream at some point this month. And if you've seen that reference, you might have some questions: What coin? Who's minting it? What's it for?
Here's the skinny: According to the Treasury, the government hit its Congressionally-approved spending limit on Dec. 31 of 2012. While raising the debt ceiling has traditionally been a mostly uncontroversial practice, many congressional Republicans are now refusing to raise the debt ceiling unless Democrats agree to spending cuts. 
Raising the debt ceiling allows the federal government to pay back loans it already owes. If the debt ceiling is not raised, the government will default on those loans, potentially doing great damage to the still-fragile economy. The Treasury is keeping things afloat for a few weeks by use of "extraordinary measures," but a political agreement will likely soon be needed to avoid economic catastrophe. 
If you're feeling at this point a bit of deja vu, that's perfectly normal: The situation is very much a repeat of a 2011 crisis. The debt ceiling was ultimately raised, but America's credit rating was downgraded by ratings agencies largely because a debate over raising it happened at all.
The political stand-off around the debt ceiling brings us to Mint the Coin. Mint the Coin started as a "are they joking or not?" style proposal among some leading politics and economics Twitterati, the most prominent of which is Business Insider's Joe Weisenthal, using #MintTheCoin. 
The idea? Make use of a legal loophole which gives the Treasury Department the legal authority to mint platinum coins in whatever denomination it sees fit to create a $1 trillion (not a typo) coin (or a few coins in somewhat lesser amounts), deposit it at the Federal Reserve and then use that money to pay off bills. It would effectively sidestep Congress entirely, theoretically affording legislators and the president time to work on a longer-term solution.
A similar idea was floated in 2011 during the last major debt ceiling crisis, but failed to gain the traction of today's Mint the Coin campaign — speaking to Twitter's enhanced ability to galvanize movements.
Mint the Coin may sound like something too easy — or too ridiculous — to work. However, it has the approval of a former head of the U.S. mint and it has been hailed as a way to "avoid catastrophic economic developments and help head off government by blackmail" by Nobel Prize winner Paul Krugman. 
On the other hand, it has been derided as "frivolous" by the Guardian's Heidi Moore, who along with others think it would invite economic disaster of its own (she also doubts it deserves the media attention it's been getting). Reuters' Felix Salmon believes it would "effectively mark the demise of the three-branch system of government" by allowing the executive to "steamroll" its legislative counterpart and is the product of minds focused on economics rather than politics.
SEE ALSO: Is Twitter Helping or Harming Political Journalism?

The White House petition to Mint the Coin, for whatever it's worth, has more than 7,000 signatures — though it needs at least 25,000 signatures to get a response from the administration.
Would the Obama administration actually mint a trillion dollar platinum coin? Probably not — but White House secretary Jay Carney was more or less forced by NBC's Chuck Todd on Wednesday to admit the government hasn't taken the plan off the table. 
Should they Mint the Coin? Share in the comments.
Photo courtesy of iStockphoto, spxChrome
http://mashable.com/2013/01/09/mint-the-coin/