Eyes-On With Samsung's Totally Crazy Dual-View TV
LAS VEGAS — Of all the products on display at CES 2013, Samsung's dual-view OLED TV has the largest cool-to-perplexing ratio. Yes, it's incredible that two people can look at the same screen and watch totally different programs, but why would anyone ever want to do that?
Conflicts over what to watch on TV are often sorted in one of three ways:
Time-shift one of the programs via a DVR (or, going way back, videotape), and have the other person watch later.
Get a second TV and flip a coin to see who goes to the other room.
Fight it out.
So why have a dual-view TV? A couple of reasons: If one TV in the home is clearly "the best" screen, the second TV may not be the best option, and sometimes schedules simply don't permit watching things later. Also, if one screen is the only place where a device resides (say, a game console), it may be difficult to move to another room.
The gaming scenario is actually one of the best examples of a dual-view use case. Think two gamers playing together (or against each other) in a title like Call of Duty. Often this kind of scenario is handled with split-screens, but what if the two players could just don glasses to see their own full-screen POV — on the same screen?
That would be awesome, but it would be only as good as the technology allows. I took a brief eyes-on look at Samsung's dual-view TV at CES, and if it becomes a product, there's nothing to worry about on the execution.
Checking out two (count 'em!) 3D signals on the set, each looked super-sharp. Samsung says the TV is capable of delivering two separate views at full HD (1080p), and that definitely came across. The TV showed the hovering droplets of a slow-motion champagne uncorking (it was a demo reel) vividly.
You need to wear special glasses (see the pic below) to see one signal or the other (to the naked eye, the picture looks terribly ghosted). Pushing a button on the top, the glasses toggle between the two signals quickly. There was sometimes a slight delay for the audio to catch up, but nothing major.
The audio, however, was really terrible, but that's easily fixable with better earphones. The demo was a proof-of-concept, after all, and any final product would doubtless improve details like this. Though, for anyone who spent a lot of money on a great speaker system, relegating audio to glasses/headphones would really hurt.
Samsung's dual-view OLED set may seem like a silly idea at first glance, but I wouldn't complain about it becoming a real product. There would be the whole question of formatting and software support, but the benefits, especially for gaming, could be well worth it.

Photos by Pete Pachal, Mashable
Powerful yet fun DIY robotics for adults and children. This update moves the control/interactions to your favorite mobile devices.
-- Lance Ulanoff, Mashable Editor-in-Chief
Read more about the Lego Mindstorms EV3 here.
Two people watching two different shows -- full screen -- on one TV while they sit next to each other sounds silly, but you can't help but be wowed by the innovative technology.
-- Lance Ulanoff, Mashable Editor-in-Chief
Read more about Samsung's Dual-View OLED TV here.
Super-small 3D sensor could change more than just gaming.
-- Lance Ulanoff, Mashable Editor-in-Chief
Read more about the PrimeSense Capri here.
Who doesn't want to listen to music in the shower? Now you can get high-quality sound without worrying about water ruining the experience or your gadget.
Read more about Sony's Waterproof Walkman here.
Display technology of the future, today.
-- Lance Ulanoff, Mashable Editor-in-Chief
Read more about Sharp's IGZO displays here.
Sounds gimmicky, but it's a great product. The UI is top-notch and the games are really cool.
-- Pete Pachal, Mashable Tech Editor
You can read more about the Lenovo IdeaCentre Horizon here.
Very powerful Android game controller. Potentially the future of mobile gaming. Plus it looks great.
-- Pete Pachal, Mashable Tech Editor
You can read more about the Nvidia Project Shield here.
For people who do serious photo and graphics work, there's really nothing better.
-- Pete Pachal, Mashable Tech Editor
You can read more about the Panasonic 4K Tablet.
Light, adaptable and so low-power you can get 13 hours of battery life. Now just make it real.
-- Pete Pachal, Mashable Tech Editor
You can read more about the Lenovo IdeaCentre Horizon here.
It might take a while to gain momentum, but this is an innovative way to bring health care to those who don't have access nearby. It also makes quick visits to the doctor more convenient and less of a time suck.
-- Andrea Smith, Lifestyle Editor
Read more about HealthSpot here.
No more speaker docks into the drawer of old tech when Apple updates a product. The IDAPT S2 speaker system has two docking options which can easily be swapped out and updated as your iPhone or Android phone evolves.
-- Andrea Smith, Lifestyle Editor
Read more about the IDAPT S2 Speaker Dock here.
Our TVs are becoming more and more like our computers. I love that Samsung is helping you upgrade your television to stay current.
-- Emily Price, Technology Reporter
Read more about Samsung's new SmartTV experience here.
The demos of Qualcomm's new chip are mind-blowing. Can't wait to see this start appearing in consumer devices.
-- Emily Price, Technology Reporter
Read more about Qualcomm's new Snapdragon 800 series chips here.
I love that IBitz gamifies physical activity. The ability for kids to "earn" texting/TV privileges through going outside and playing is genius.
-- Emily Price, Technology Reporter
Read more about iBitz here.
Long gone are the days where USB flash drives were a few megabytes. The Kingston is the world's first 1TB USB 3.0 flash drive and it's as impressive as it sounds.
-- Samantha Murphy, Technology Reporter
Read more about Kingston's 1TB Flash Drive here.
The FitBit is more than just a fitness tracker, now it watches you while you sleep -- well, sort of. The wearable wristband can now track you throughout the day and you can set fitness goals too.
-- Samantha Murphy, Technology Reporter
Read more about the FitBit Flex here.
By placing your mobile device on top of this speaker, it magically amplifies sound with great quality. Plus, it looks so neat and cozy resting on top of its new home.
-- Samantha Murphy, Technology Reporter
Read more about BoostPlus here.
Monster is partnering with gaming developer EA Sports to kick it off right.
-- Samantha Murphy, Technology Reporter
Read more about Monster's EA Headphones here.
The new 6.1 inch-Ascend Mate is large and in charge -- the largest we've seen, in fact. Too large? Maybe. But it's easy to hold and makes you forget just how jumbo it is.
-- Samantha Murphy, Technology Reporter
Read more about Huawei's Ascend Mate here.
http://mashable.com/2013/01/09/samsung-dual-view-eyes-on/