Fitbug Launches New Suite of Health Trackers
LAS VEGAS — You may not have heard of Fitbug before, but the wearable fitness tracking device maker was one of the first companies in the now booming fit-tech space. 
Launched in 2005, the UK company moved to the U.S. in 2010. Fitbug originally sold its product to companies and healthcare providers but now it's reaching out to the consumer market. 
At International CES 2013 Fitbug announced three new products — the Fitbug Orb (activity tracker), Fitbug Wow (scale), and Fitbug Luv (blood pressure monitor). All of the devices are Bluetooth 4.0 enabled so you can receive all the data on one app. 
Your personal data is also uploaded to the Fitbug cloud and accessible on your personal account on the website. As with most of the Fitbug products, users must buy a monthly service plan to access the cloud and have an account on the site. Pricing ranges depending on which device and plan your purchase. 
Paul Landau, CEO of Fitbug, tells Mashable Fitbug's products offer users personalized health programs by tracking their progress in terms of weight, activity and blood pressure. 
With the launch of the new Fitbug Orb, Landau said they've listened to user feedback and heard people complain about wearing the device. Like most pedometers, Fitbug attaches onto your waistband or pants pocket. When wearing a dress, women had no option but it to tuck it into their underwear, which was uncomfortable, he said. 
The newest Fitbug Orb offers lots of wearable options. It comes with a lanyard and a safety clip, so you won't lose it. Plus a sleep band (it tracks sleep, too) and a key fob. Consumers can chose the other new wearable accessories such as the wristband ($14.99), belt clip ($9.99), or thin magnetic underwear clip ($9.99). 
The Fitbug Orb retails for $49.99 which includes access to the Fitbug cloud for one year. After that, the cost to access the Fitbug cloud is $3.99 per month. 
SEE ALSO: 5 Lesser-Known Fitness Gadgets to Fuel Your Workout 
The blood pressure monitor, the Fitbug Luv, is currently going through FDA approval. Landau said he is hoping it will be approved some time around May or June. (Most of these devices don't go through FDA approval, but when something specifically gives users a diagnosis, it needs FDA approval). It will compete with the Withings blood pressure monitoring device that's already available. The Luv costs $119.99. The Fitbug scale (the Wow) costs $79.99, or $119.99 if purchased bundled with the Fitbug Air. The Fitbug Air Bluetooth 4 wireless activity tracker was released this past fall. The Air ranges in cost from $29.99 for the device plus three months access to the Fitbug cloud, or can be purchased with 12 months of cloud access for $59.99. After the 12 months, the cost to access the Fitbug cloud is $3.99 per month.
Fitbug is currently working on integrating with MyFitnessPal and LoseIt.com. It is already integrated with MapMyFitness. 
Have you tried the Fitbug products in the past? What do you think of these updated products? Tell us in the comments. 
Andrea Smith conducted the interview for this report. Photos by Nina Frazier. 
Powerful yet fun DIY robotics for adults and children. This update moves the control/interactions to your favorite mobile devices.
-- Lance Ulanoff, Mashable Editor-in-Chief
Read more about the Lego Mindstorms EV3 here.
Two people watching two different shows -- full screen -- on one TV while they sit next to each other sounds silly, but you can't help but be wowed by the innovative technology.
-- Lance Ulanoff, Mashable Editor-in-Chief
Read more about Samsung's Dual-View OLED TV here.
Super-small 3D sensor could change more than just gaming.
-- Lance Ulanoff, Mashable Editor-in-Chief
Read more about the PrimeSense Capri here.
Who doesn't want to listen to music in the shower? Now you can get high-quality sound without worrying about water ruining the experience or your gadget.
Read more about Sony's Waterproof Walkman here.
Display technology of the future, today.
-- Lance Ulanoff, Mashable Editor-in-Chief
Read more about Sharp's IGZO displays here.
Sounds gimmicky, but it's a great product. The UI is top-notch and the games are really cool.
-- Pete Pachal, Mashable Tech Editor
You can read more about the Lenovo IdeaCentre Horizon here.
Very powerful Android game controller. Potentially the future of mobile gaming. Plus it looks great.
-- Pete Pachal, Mashable Tech Editor
You can read more about the Nvidia Project Shield here.
For people who do serious photo and graphics work, there's really nothing better.
-- Pete Pachal, Mashable Tech Editor
You can read more about the Panasonic 4K Tablet.
Light, adaptable and so low-power you can get 13 hours of battery life. Now just make it real.
-- Pete Pachal, Mashable Tech Editor
You can read more about the Lenovo IdeaCentre Horizon here.
It might take a while to gain momentum, but this is an innovative way to bring health care to those who don't have access nearby. It also makes quick visits to the doctor more convenient and less of a time suck.
-- Andrea Smith, Lifestyle Editor
Read more about HealthSpot here.
No more speaker docks into the drawer of old tech when Apple updates a product. The IDAPT S2 speaker system has two docking options which can easily be swapped out and updated as your iPhone or Android phone evolves.
-- Andrea Smith, Lifestyle Editor
Read more about the IDAPT S2 Speaker Dock here.
Our TVs are becoming more and more like our computers. I love that Samsung is helping you upgrade your television to stay current.
-- Emily Price, Technology Reporter
Read more about Samsung's new SmartTV experience here.
The demos of Qualcomm's new chip are mind-blowing. Can't wait to see this start appearing in consumer devices.
-- Emily Price, Technology Reporter
Read more about Qualcomm's new Snapdragon 800 series chips here.
I love that IBitz gamifies physical activity. The ability for kids to "earn" texting/TV privileges through going outside and playing is genius.
-- Emily Price, Technology Reporter
Read more about iBitz here.
Long gone are the days where USB flash drives were a few megabytes. The Kingston is the world's first 1TB USB 3.0 flash drive and it's as impressive as it sounds.
-- Samantha Murphy, Technology Reporter
Read more about Kingston's 1TB Flash Drive here.
The FitBit is more than just a fitness tracker, now it watches you while you sleep -- well, sort of. The wearable wristband can now track you throughout the day and you can set fitness goals too.
-- Samantha Murphy, Technology Reporter
Read more about the FitBit Flex here.
By placing your mobile device on top of this speaker, it magically amplifies sound with great quality. Plus, it looks so neat and cozy resting on top of its new home.
-- Samantha Murphy, Technology Reporter
Read more about BoostPlus here.
Monster is partnering with gaming developer EA Sports to kick it off right.
-- Samantha Murphy, Technology Reporter
Read more about Monster's EA Headphones here.
The new 6.1 inch-Ascend Mate is large and in charge -- the largest we've seen, in fact. Too large? Maybe. But it's easy to hold and makes you forget just how jumbo it is.
-- Samantha Murphy, Technology Reporter
Read more about Huawei's Ascend Mate here.
http://mashable.com/2013/01/10/fitbug/