Involver Founder Rahim Fazal Answers Reader Questions via Live Chat

Got a question for Fazal? Use the chat feature above to get it answered live. 
Entrepreneur and public speaker Rahim Fazal is the founder of Involver, the world’s largest social media marketing platform, used by more than 1 million companies and many Fortune 500 brands. Involver was recently acquired by Oracle.
While still in high school, Fazal co-founded a web hosting company and negotiated its sale for $1.5 million while taking his senior year final exams. He then started a web services platform business and eventually took it public, becoming one of the youngest directors of a publicly traded company in the United States.
Fazal completed his MBA at Canada’s top management school, the Richard Ivey School of Business. Because of his achievements, he was the youngest student in the school’s 80-year history accepted without a prerequisite university degree.
A frequent and popular speaker, Fazal's life-planning program, “Gettin’ It,” provides alternately hilarious and sobering education to youths on how to truly get what they want out of life.Fazal was honored at The White House with an Empact 100 Award by Startup America and The Kauffman Foundation. He has been named one of the Top 30 Entrepreneurs Under 30 in America by Inc Magazine and one of the Top 25 Digital Thought-Leaders by iMedi.
#StartupLab is a free virtual mentorship program created by The Young Entrepreneur Council (YEC), an invite-only non-profit organization comprised of over 500 of America’s most successful young entrepreneurs who have, collectively, generated tens of thousands of jobs and hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue. #StartupLab offers millions of entrepreneurs, small business owners and startup founders the tactical advice they need to launch and grow new businesses via live, interactive video chats, educational content and mentorship opportunities — right on Facebook.
Photo courtesy of Rahim Fazal

http://mashable.com/2013/01/10/live-chat-involver/