Is Iran Behind a Wave of Cyberattacks Against U.S. Banks?
Several American banks, among them Bank of America, Citigroup, Wells Fargo and others, have been the target of cyberattacks in recent months. While no bank records or personally identifiable information have been stolen from any bank, customers have been complaining of slow or unusable online banking services.
The attacks are coming in the form of Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks launched by networked computers in data centers. That's a level above less sophisticated DDoS attacks, which are commonly orchestrated like this: First, hackers gain control of a commandable network of "bot" computers by spreading a virus that infects thousands of unsuspecting computer owners. Then, they turn those machines into weapons, pointing a great deal of bogus traffic at a particular website in the hopes of overloading and crashing the target server. But where are these attacks coming from? Responsibility for many of them has been claimed by the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Cyber Fighters, which say they're unaffiliated with any government. However, according to United States government officials cited in a recent New York Times report, Izz ad-Din al-Qassam is likely a front for Iran's cyberwarfare efforts. 
That makes some degree of sense: Iran has reason to be retaliating in cyberspace after it was hit with U.S. and Israel-backed computer viruses. The Times report claims the attacks' sophistication identifies them as state-sponsored. And the group's name is a reference to Iran-funded Hamas.  "There is no doubt within the U.S. government that Iran is behind these attacks," James A. Lewis, a computer security expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, told the Times. But is Iran really the culprit here? Mashable reached out to several security experts for a second opinion.
Roel Schouwenberg, senior researcher at Kaspersky Labs (which identified several recent cyberattacks against Iran), didn't confirm or deny the attacks' origins. However, he doesn't believe the attacks are so complicated they must be the work of a government. “We can confirm that the attacks being reported are happening; however, the malware being used, known as ItsOKNoProblemBro, is far from sophisticated," wrote Schouwenberg in an e-mail. "It's really rather simple. It’s also only one part of the puzzle but it seems to be effective, which is all that matters to the attackers. Going strictly by the publicly known technical details, we don't see enough evidence that would categorize this operation as something only a nation-state sponsored actor could pull off.” Claudio Guarnieri, security researcher at Rapid7, agreed the complexity of the attacks is "disputable" and doesn't necessarily mean a government is behind them. "The malicious code involved is effective but very simple," wrote Guarnieri. "The link with state-sponsored entities could be justified by the fact that there is no direct gain for the attackers besides the disruption of the targets' operations. However, considering that there is no obvious evidence and that it could potentially be the work of generic cybercriminals, it's hard to confirm it.” Have you been affected by attacks on banking servers? Do you think Iran is behind these attacks? Share in the comments.
Photo via Atta Kenare/AFP/Getty Images
http://mashable.com/2013/01/09/iran-cyberattacks-banks/