LEGO Taking Robotics to Next Level with Mindstorms EV3
LAS VEGAS — Robot dreams are built one-piece-at-a-time. That is if you're one of the many fans of LEGO's Mindstorms Robot Building Kits. Launched in 1998, the kid-friendly, DIY set has a legion of fans ranging from the enterprising 10-year-old, to University-level researchers. Now the popular robot playground is getting its biggest update in six years with the new LEGO Mindstorms EV3.
Unveiled at CES 2013, the new robot building kit, which coincides with Mindstorm's 15th anniversary, includes 601 LEGO pieces, sensors, programming software and, at its heart, a programmable "brick" that always sits, figuratively and literally, at the center of any LEGO Mindstorms project. It, along with virtually everything else in the kit, has been upgraded. For example, there's now more feedback on the black-and-white LCD screen. 
Young robot builders can actually do all their programming on the brick. Running Linux, the brick (and therefore the robots you build) is also totally hackable. It also features a micro SD card slot for additional memory and a USB port for, well, LEGO doesn't know what people will do with it. However, since the Mindstorms EV3 brick does not include Wi-Fi, some robot builders might use it to add a Wi-Fi USB dongle.
As before, sensors plug directly into the brick, including the new IR robot eyes that react  to interaction and can be used to follow the new remote control.
LEGO still provides powerful, object-based programming software that you run on your PC, but Mindstorms EV3 will also let young programmers control their robots via freely downloadable smart phone and tablet-based games and apps. We test-drove a prototype Android based app that let us control snake-like robot by moving the phone around. Tipping the phone back and forth controlled forward and backward movement, a shake make the bot shake and a forward thrust made the snakebot lunch forward and try to bite you (very entertaining)., In other words, young programmers will be able to use their smart device's innate capabilities, like the accelerometer , to create unique and entertaining interactions  with their robot creations.
Most of the Mindstorms robot creations have undergone a makeover as well. The kits has always featured a humanoid "hero" robot, but the new Everstorm has a sleeker, more complex look. In fact all the robots are a tad more anthropomorphic and also more playful. LEGO execs tell us that children see robots not as objects, but as extensions of themselves, things with personalities, and the new looks are an outgrowth of that child-like perspective.
As always LEGO Mindstorms will come with lots of guidance to help young roboticists build their first robot, including a new iPad-based, interactive 3D-model building guide that LEGO created with Autodesk. It shows pieces in three dimensions, lets you spin them around and zoom in and out with your fingers and then can, via onscreen animations, show you exactly where each piece is supposed to go.The kit, which includes instructions for building five different robots (you can download an additional 12 plans for free), ships this summer and will list for $349.99.

http://mashable.com/2013/01/07/lego-taking-robotics-to-next-level-with-mindstorms-ev3/