Let 'Er Rip! Al Roker 'Pooped In My Pants' Remix

Dougie, make room on the dancefloor for the Dookie Dance.
Al Roker's confession that he pooped his pants at the White House following gastric bypass surgery had the Internet talking a lot of crap this week. The Today weatherman shared his  story on Dateline NBC, bluntly telling correspondent Nancy Snyderman "I pooped my pants."
SEE ALSO: Sammy Sosa's Kooky Pinterest Page Won the Internet Today

And when there's a mention of poop, a flood of Internet jokes, videos and memes will follow. Seriously, no amount of Imodium could stop it. 
YouTube user Andrew Frederick flushes out a beat to the potty humor with "I Pooped in my Pants (The Dookie Dance)." It will certainly make a splash on the Internet. (Sorry.)
BONUS: When the News Breaks: 15 On-Air Flubs 
After a comment from Savannah Guthrie about the old Catholic school adage that one should leave "enough space for the holy ghost to pass through" while dancing, Mr. Roker simply freezes and holds his facial expression. 
It's pretty bizarre and has sparked a lot of controversy on Reddit. 
There is a tender moment between when the cameras begin rolling and when the feed gets pumped into the homes of viewers. 
Sometimes, reporters forget about this gap and say something a bit silly. 
We're all familiar with the aggressive reporter that hounds an alleged scammer or particularly flighty interview subject. It was only a matter of time before an incident like this surfaced. 
As an on location reporter, it makes for better TV if one can get as close as possible to the story. 
For this reporter and his legs, he was clearly a little too close.
Possibly learning from the prior reporter, these two sports anchors set up their desk out of the field of play. At least they thought it was far enough away. 
The quality of wrong place, wrong time for this incident is pretty uncanny.
There's a lot of controversy around this video's veracity. It's hard to tell if the accident was staged or not. There are several clues that point to it being staged, but we may never know.
People will do anything to get on TV. This video proves that reporters will do anything to keep obnoxious people off TV. 
This genre of blooper is quite pervasive on the web. It seems that despite their on-air professionalism and journalism pedigree, primary school humor still can break the most seasoned of reporters.
Not sure how this would go over in the states, but clearly this Aussie reporter is delighted with her clever zinger.
We acknowledge - as we're sure the reporter and producer did who set this up - that seeing an expert snake handler interact with a complete novice on live TV is bound for a golden YouTube moment.
If you hold a cat making this sound and think it's "having fun," you're gonna have a bad time.
Morning news shows are known for doing quirky things to capture viewers. The idea to have a man with a water-powered jetpack introduce a segment must have seemed like a good idea at some point, right?
Venerated New York City anchor forgets the rule about waiting a few seconds to make sure the feed isn't live before dropping f-bombs. 
We're sure this must have cost her and the station a pretty penny, but at least she made right and apologized to her viewers.
Not only one of the funniest news fails, but one of the funniest fails in general. 
Thankfully the reporter turned out to be okay, but the look of shared pain of the reporters in studio and the gutteral moans and exhortations of this poor woman made it an instant classic, even being parodied on Family Guy
This has to be one of the most famous meltdowns caught on tape. It's become one of several memes associated with the king of bloviation. 
Image courtesy of Flickr, nostri-imago
http://mashable.com/2013/01/10/al-roker-pooped-pants-remix/