Man Recovers Stolen iPhone by Luring Thief Through Dating Site
One of the unfortunate facts of the digital age we live in is that items such as iPhones are likely candidates to be stolen. Everyone wants the latest smartphone, tablet, computer or gadget from companies like Apple. So, when an iPhone is lost, chances are there's someone else out there fiddling with it. 
That's what happened to Nadav Nirenberg this past New Year's Eve. He lost his phone, and another scurrilous individual decided to keep it. How did Nirenberg know someone had his phone? He received an email alert notifying him that the person had been messaging women through OkCupid on it. That's when things got interesting.
Nirenberg created a fake OkCupid profile featuring a picture of a young, busty woman titled "Jennifer in BK." The fake woman, who he named Jennifer Gonzalez, then began messaging the unsuspecting thief.
The crook suggested the two meet, to which Nirenberg quickly agreed and requested that they meet at an address that just so happens to be Nirenberg's apartment. As for how he convinced the thief that he was a lady, Nirenberg said, "I used lots of winks and smiley faces so I would seem like a girl."
When the bandit showed up at Nirenberg's door, he was all decked out and ready for a date — even holding a bottle of wine. That's when Nirenberg tapped the man on the shoulder from behind, and brandished a hammer, before demanding the return of his phone. After a short exchange that involved Nirenberg giving the thief $20, the iPhone was recovered.
As successful as this story seems, we don't suggest trying it at home. A hammer's not liable to stop someone who's really keen on keeping a stolen object. That said, anyone who has ever had something stolen from them can certainly take a little slice of justice away from Nirenberg's experience.
[via NYPost]
Image courtesy of Flickr, matthewthecoolguy

This article originally published at Geekosystem
here

http://mashable.com/2013/01/07/stolen-iphone-dating/