McAfee Claims He Uncovered Terrorist Plot by Spying on Authorities
John McAfee has spent the last few weeks first as a fugitive, blogging about it — even from jail — and then getting caught because two reporters revealed his location when they uploaded a picture to gloat that they were with him. He was finally extradited to the U.S. before Christmas. 
But if you thought his bizarre and crazy story was over, you were wrong. The founder of the eponymous antivirus company now claims that he spied on Belize authorities with laptops infected with malware and a bunch of women and men, hired to be his personal spies. Allegedly, this complex operation led him to uncover an international plan to smuggle terrorists into the U.S. 
Unbelievable right? That might be because it's all a bunch of lies. In fact, practically everything McAfee wrote in his blog post is unverifiable.
And McAfee himself hasn't been exactly trustworthy since he went into hiding after the Belize police came looking to question him about his neighbors' death. For example, when two Vice reporters mistakenly uploaded a picture that revealed his location in Guatemala, McAfee said that actually he had forged that information himself, claiming he was safely hiding somewhere else. That turned out to be a lie. 
His latest story started in May, when the Belize police raided McAfee's house, searching for drugs and firearms and arresting him for a few hours. In the end, no charges were brought against him but, according to McAfee, he didn't receive any apologies either. And that's when he decided to take the matter into his own hands and retaliate. "I had asked for a simple apology and had received none," he wrote in the post. "I was pissed. They had shot my dog, destroyed my property and stolen hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of things that I valued. They have still not been returned."
Revenge wasn't his only motive though, he himself isn't sure what his motive was. "Much of my life is a mystery to me.  Suffice it to say: I just did it because I could."
McAfee explains that he bought the laptops, installed "invisible keystroke logging software" on them and started giving them away "to select people" like "government employees, police officers, Cabinet Minister's assistants, girlfriends of powerful men, boyfriends of powerful women." The malware was designed to record everything these people typed on the laptops and send it back to McAfee. This way, McAfee claims he found out people's passwords to their Facebook accounts, emails and any other private account they might have accessed.
For all this sophisticated spying enterprise to work, McAfee needed help. That's why he initially hired four people to monitor the text files containing the key logs that the computers were automatically sending back. Then, to take the spying to a whole another level, he hired 23 women and six men to be his "operatives." 
"These men and women were given simple training on how to access and load software on someone's computer while they slept, or ate or made long phone calls etc," McAfee writes. Basically, they became his spy honey traps. And, according to him, they were pretty good at it too. So good, in fact, that eight of those 23 women ended up living with him to work closely with him. And one of them even tried to kill him because she was a double agent. McAfee doesn't bother explaining more about that though. Maybe in his next blog post. McAfee goes on to claim another spying achievement thanks to his operatives, who were armed with "software, presents, a story, a seductive smile and a small voice recorder." Thanks to them he allegedly infiltrated two phone companies and tapped his targets' phones, listening to their calls. 
SEE ALSO: John McAfee's Exploits Hurt the McAfee Brand, Study Says

What did all this spying lead to? Initially, nothing surprising: "uncountable numbers of sexual affairs — embarrassingly lurid and intimate chats," and, you know, the usual proof of human trafficking, which McAfee dismisses as "uninteresting old news." 
That's not all, though. In what might be the most outlandish detail in an already bizarre story, McAfee then claims he discovered that many alleged male prostitutes being smuggled into the country and given Belize passports were actually Lebanese terrorists.
McAfee then vaguely describes an international plan to smuggle the prostitute/terrorists into the U.S. through Belize and Nicaragua. And in a made-for-tv cliffhanger, he also promises to give us more details about it soon. In the meantime, he will take "a well-earned vacation into the heartland of the Midwest," where he can blend with ranchers and cowboys who, according to McAfee, "are a sympathetic lot." 
Photo via Joe Raedle/Getty Images
http://mashable.com/2013/01/07/mcafee-spying/