NBC Comedy '1600 Penn' Launches Social Media Cupcake Contest
NBC and bakery franchise Sprinkles have concocted a tasty social media contest to promote 1600 Penn, a comedy premiering Jan. 10. The winner will get a year's supply of cupcakes. 
Sprinkles has declared Jan. 10 as "Gilchrist Inauguration Day" — because of the show's main character Dale Gilchrist who plays the U.S. president — and will give away free 1600 Penn-branded cupcakes at 11 bakeries. 
People who pick up a free cupcake can enter to win the year's supply of cupcakes by posting a photo of their cupcake on Instagram or Twitter using hashtag #1600Cupcakes. 
"For those who don't live near a Sprinkles bakery we created a virtual cupcake so everyone could enjoy and share with their friends and have the chance to win Sprinkles cupcakes for a year," Sharon Allen, senior vice president of marketing strategy, tells Mashable. 
The virtual cupcake will be shared on the show's Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Tumblr profiles. People can use the photo of the virtual cupcake on Instagram and Twitter, too.
The contest goes live at 1:30 p.m. ET. Participating Sprinkles location are in New York City (60th and Lexington), Los Angeles (Beverly Hills and The Grove), Chicago, Dallas, Washington, D.C. (Georgetown), Houston, San Diego (La Jolla), Palo Alto, Newport Beach (Calif.) and Scottsdale (Ariz.).
SEE ALSO: 'Biggest Loser' Online Hub Gets Makeover for Season 14

1600 Penn stars Bill Pullman as President Gilchrist, Josh Gad as first son Skip and Jenna Elfman as first lady Emily. Gad and Elman are showing off the cupcakes in the above photo.
Meanwhile, NBC debuted the series' first episode online ahead Thursday's TV premiere.
NBC describes the show as such: "Whether it's entertaining foreign dignitaries, sneaking away for a night out, dealing with middle-school crushes or putting out fires, there is never a dull moment inside the Gilchrist White House."
See if you can guess the popular television slow in each slide of the gallery. If you need to peek at the answer, simply use your cursor to highlight the text following the word "Answer." The title will appear like magic -- oooOOOooooo!
Photo via NBCUniversal
http://mashable.com/2013/01/09/1600-penn-sprinkles-cupcakes/