Need a Job? Check 100+ Openings at Edelman and More
Whether you're unemployed, underemployed or just looking for something a bit more interesting, Mashable Job Board is full of listings to take your career to the next level.
Since 2005, Mashable has been committed to bringing the top digital, social and tech news and resources to our readers. Over time, we've built a readership of 20 million people who are well versed in digital trends, social media and all the hottest technologies. So when the world's best companies are looking to fill open positions, they post them on the Mashable Job Board. New jobs are added every day, and many positions are exclusive — employers know that if they're going to find the right person for the job, they're going to find them reading Mashable.
Below, we've rounded up five recently posted jobs; check the Mashable Job Board daily for more open positions, and be sure to read our Job Search Series for tips on how to land your dream job.
Position: Director of Product/UX LeadCompany: ContentlyLocation: New York, NY
"We're looking for a product manager with an expert UX background who can own the design direction at Contently. As a growing platform powering the next generation of the world's media companies, we have increasingly interesting design needs, primarily user experience/interaction design. We need you to own the process of addressing those needs, and help us crush it! You'll be working with our product team, who, aside from being amazing hackers, will constantly keep you up to date on hilarious shit on the Internet."
Position: Vice President, Digital - Gaming"Company: EdelmanLocation: Los Angeles, Calif.
"Edelman Digital is in search of a senior-level digital and social media professional to join our Los Angeles team with experience in video games and gaming launches. This is an exciting opportunity to help shape the direction of some of the worlds biggest entertainment franchises."
"Edelman Digital is the world's first and largest global social agency. We leverage the industrys best talent, combining insight driven business strategy, creative problem solving and flawless execution. This leads to measurable results for our clients and tangible value for their stakeholders."
Position: PR & Marketing SpecialistCompany: Tai Ping CarpetsLocation: New York, NY
"Founded in 1956, Tai Ping Carpets is an international custom carpet and rug company that designs and manufactures floor coverings for luxurious and prestigious interiors. Based in Hong Kong, Tai Ping Carpets operates flagship showrooms in New York City and Paris, as well as proprietary factories, design studios, and showrooms in 100 countries."
"Tai Ping Carpets has an immediate opening in our New York office for a PR & Marketing Specialist. We seek a highly motivated communications and marketing professional for our growing, fast-paced communications team, responsible for coordinating global PR and communications activities, hospitality division PR management as well as marketing support. The position reports to the Digital Marketing Manager."
Position: Manager, Community Engagement & Content StrategyCompany: Ketchum DigitalLocation: New York, NY
"We're looking for a Manager of Community Engagement & Content Strategy to join our ranks. An individual deeply ingrained in media culture, pull-not-push marketing and the dynamics of on- and off-line community-building. This individual will play a critical role at Ketchum, helping clients monitor and interact with enthusiast communities; playing an active role in business development; helping develop and evangelize a company-wide perspective on the use of emerging media; and building new content, products and services for the agency. In other words, the ideal candidate is someone who thrives on working in a highly visible, brain-bending, massively multitasking capacity at the cutting edge where communications and technology come together."
Position: Digital Associate, AnalyticsCompany: Weber ShandwickLocation: New York, NY
"Weber Shandwick leads the digital change for organizations around the world. We operate one of the largest digital and social media agency networks globally and work with some of the most iconic brands in the business. Weber Shandwicks Digital practice helps clients understand, apply and benefit from digital, social and emerging media in measurable ways. The group consists of more than 300 digital and social media specialists embedded in 34 offices around the world."
Check out these and other jobs on Mashable's Job Board. New positions are added every day, ranging from entry-level to C-suite positions.

Image courtesy of iStockphoto, hidesy
http://mashable.com/2013/01/07/jobs-contently/