New Pitchfork Feature Lets You Stream Whole Albums in Advance
Online music publication Pitchfork is launching Pitchfork Advance, a new content vertical allowing readers to listen to entire streams of new albums. 
In line with the site's editorial vision, the albums will be carefully curated. For the inaugural week, Pitchfork will stream Fade by the New Jersey rock band Yo La Tengo and a reissue of Donuts by the late hip hop producer J Dilla. 
Bands and record labels increasingly offer up streams of their albums in advance. Conventional wisdom suggests that in an age of rampant piracy, letting listeners sample music legitimately will curb illegal downloading, and in the case of rising acts, might even entice people to buy something that otherwise would have been off their radar. 
Soundcloud and Bandcamp offer artists the opportunity to share music directly with their fans. For some a media partner offers increased visibility and legitimacy. NPR and AOL's Spinner, to name two, consistently offer sets of advance album streams.
With Pitchfork Advance, the site will try to offer an experience that exceeds the capabilities of other streaming platforms. Not unlike their series of Cover Stories, which explore the web as a storytelling platform, Pitchfork Advance hopes to turn album listening into a visual, interactive experience. "In most cases, the artwork we publish will come from the album's actual packaging, but there will be some other material that's created exclusively for Pitchfork Advance," said Pitchfork founder Ryan Schreiber. "We can do a lot more with this platform than just reproduce static images and text." 
The Yo La Tengo stream, for example, is accompanied by a virtual "CD booklet" in the form of a stream of video loops. 

"I've been surprised by the lack of innovation in digital album art over the last decade, especially because artists and labels are still designing elaborate packaging for physical releases," Schreiber said. 
Though eventually the goal is for it to work on mobile, it's currently a desktop experience only. Perhaps this is most indicative of what Pitchfork wants you to do: Listen to albums, distraction-free.
The adherence to the album may seem old-school in the era of iTunes singles, but albums are still at the core of Pitchfork's world view. The site publishes five lengthy album reviews every weekday, and its yearly best albums list takes top billing amid its end-of-year coverage. Not surprisingly, many on Pitchfork staff are vinyl collectors - including Schreiber. 
"Pitchfork Advance allows you to have an experience with the music that's immersive in the way that engaging with a vinyl LP would be," he said.
Does listening in advance help you decide to buy music? Let us know in the comments. 
Screenshot courtesy of Pitchfork
http://mashable.com/2013/01/07/pitchfork-advance-album-stream/