Nokia Sold 4.4 Million Lumia Phones in Q4
Don't count the Nokia Lumia out just yet.
Nokia announced Thursday that it sold 4.4 million Lumia smartphones in the December quarter, more than it sold in each of the three previous quarters and nearly twice the number sold in the September quarter. A year ago, Nokia revealed that it had sold more than 1 million Lumias since the line of smartphones launched.
The announcement came as the company released preliminary earnings results for the quarter, in which it revealed the third consecutive quarter of profitability, thanks to lower operating costs and greater-than-expected device sales. Nokia now expects its Devices & Services segment to have an operating margin of between break even and 2%, compared to a previous estimate of negative 6%.
"We are pleased that Q4 2012 was a solid quarter where we exceeded expectations and delivered underlying profitability in Devices & Services and record underlying profitability in Nokia Siemens Networks," Nokia's CEO Stephen Elop said in a statement.
In total, Nokia sold 15.9 million smartphones for the quarter, though 9.3 million of those were Asha phones, which is a much cheaper device that is popular in Asia and Latin America. 
Sales of the Lumia phone in particular were likely helped by discounts offered on certain models. Nokia slashed the price of the Lumia 900 in half last July, just three months after the device hit the U.S. market. Later in the year, Amazon cut the price of the Lumia 920 from $99 to $39 for those who signed up for a contract with AT&T.
The Lumia phones have been praised by many reviewers for its sleek design and unique user interface, but sales of the device have yet to approach the levels of the leading smartphones in the market. Samsung sold 30 million Galaxy S III smartphones worldwide in just five months last year and Apple is expected to sell 45-50 million iPhones in the December quarter. 
Nokia's stock jumped nearly 20% in pre-market trading on the strength of these sales figures.
Image courtesy of Nokia
http://mashable.com/2013/01/10/nokia-lumia-sales-q4/