Official Oscar App Adds Android, Facebook Ballots
Hot on the heels of the nominations for the 85th Academy Awards, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences have updated their award-winning Oscar companion app — this time with Facebook integration and Android support.
The app is designed to offer fans an inside look before, during and after Hollywood's biggest night. This is the third year that ABC and the Academy have worked together on the app and each year, the experience gets more refined and polished.
Before the Oscars, users can check the app to find out the latest Oscar news, watch interviews with insiders and access Oscar trivia. Users can also browse past winners, past red carpet fashions and famous Oscar video clips.
On Feb. 24 — Oscar Sunday — the app turns into a second screen companion with the Oscar.com Backstage Pass. The Backstage Pass will let users access over a dozen live cameras placed throughout the Red Carpet and inside the Dolby Theatre. Fans can also access the press room and see interviews with stars after they win.
This year, the official Oscar app is also available on Android and for the Kindle Fire. This is a big deal, if only because it further solidifys Android's dominance in the mobile space. 
In our tests, the app offers a similar experience across platforms, which is great news for Oscar fans, regardless of smartphone OS preference.
A staple of the Oscars app is the ability to create your own Oscar ballot. This year, the app ballot is more interactive than ever.
When you select your choice in the app, an image of the film or of an actor/director appears behind your choice. It's a subtle, but very cool effect.

The bigger news is that using Facebook, you can play along with your friends. The ballot will update in real-time so you can see how you rank against your Facebook friends as it happens on Oscar Sunday.
Fans can also share news and photos from the app directly to Twitter and Facebook, complete with the #Oscars hashtag.
You can download the Oscars app for iOS [iTunes link], Google Play [Google Play link] and Kindle Fire [Amazon link] now. The Oscars kick off at 7:00 p.m. EST on Feb. 24, 2013 on ABC.
Image courtesy of Oscars App, composite by Mashable
http://mashable.com/2013/01/10/oscar-app-ios-android-2013/