Redditors Accuse BuzzFeed of Photo Theft
A thread at the top of Reddit's most popular photography group, r/photography,  accuses BuzzFeed of "stealing people's long exposure pics ... without any permission" for a sponsored post advertising a camera on the site.
The BuzzFeed post, "14 Amazing Photos That Are Totally Not Photoshopped," is a list of images taken with a camera's shutter open for an extended time, a technique commonly used for star trail and "light drawing" photography. Samsung sponsored the article to promote the Galaxy Camera's "Light Trace" mode, a feature that helps people take these increasingly popular photos. 
Several of the original photos in the article, according to Redditors posting in the thread, were taken from Reddit or Imgur (the most popular image host among the Reddit community) without permission of the photographers or proper link credit. Most of the sources were originally listed as "Imgur" — when clicked, brought readers to a hosted .JPG file, devoid of ownership information.

Images courtesy Frame52, James Vernacotola
Following the complaints, BuzzFeed switched the photos in favor of Flickr content licensed under Creative Commons. 
"We were very concerned we were pissing off people in that community," said Jonah Peretti, co-founder of BuzzFeed, "And we've already removed all of those images and updated the post. It was something just designed to show how cool that sort of photography is. Sometimes I think Imgur confuses the sourcing of which images wind up out there. And we quickly corrected it when we were able to discover who the actual photographer was and that he was upset that it was used."
When asked if BuzzFeed should take steps to identify photographers before a post like this goes live, Peretti agreed that it should. "If we can find the person yes, for sure," he said. "I think that sometimes we have trouble finding the person."
One Redditor proved the straightforwardness of sourcing the photos. Mtranda did "40 minutes of research" and was able to identify the photographers behind most of the images.
"We really regret that we made these awesome, creative people upset," said Peretti. "And we would love to talk to any of them directly to figure out how to work together in the future on this stuff."
Peretti emphasized that BuzzFeed, not Samsung, was the creative force behind the post. "It was a BuzzFeed post, not a Samsung post. They sponsored it, but it was a BuzzFeed post," he said. Samsung has yet to respond to Mashable's request for comment.
SEE ALSO: How to Use Creative Commons Visuals
Although several of the Redditors posting in the thread are upset at BuzzFeed for the post, others blame the photographers themselves for uploading the images to Imgur, from which photos may be easily taken without adequate sourcing.
"This is a perfect example of why Imgur is a horrible place to post photos," wrote wpnw. "You do open yourself up to this kind of thing by posting your photographic work on Imgur," added PowerCrumpet. "Welcome to the Internet, where fair use and piracy run both way[s]," opined bitparity. 
Top image courtesy of Flickr, Photo Extremist
http://mashable.com/2013/01/10/reddit-photography-buzzfeed/