Roku Becomes a Time Warner Cable Box With New Partner Deals
Roku has secured more channels for its smart TV boxes, bringing the streaming-entertainment company's offering to more than 700 channels since 2008.
Ahead of its appearance at CES in Las Vegas this week, Roku revealed Monday it has inked deals with a dozen video, gaming and music partners such as TWC TV, Blockbuster On Demand, FOX NOW, PBS, PBS KIDS, iHeartRadio and Big Fish Unlimited. 
The biggest part of the news is for Time Warner Cable (TWC) subscribers. Later this quarter, TWC TV users can download an app that will provide them with 300 live TV channels directly from Roku. In effect, this turns into a second cable box.
This is similar to the deal Comcast's Xfinity and Verizon FiOS signed with the Xbox 360. It's also similar to what Cablevision offers its customers via its iOS and Kindle Fire Optimum Online app.
In effect, this is further blurring the line between content delivered over the air (OTA) and streamed over the top (OTT).
The channels will launch in the Roku Channel Store early this year.
Roku also announced new device partners for the Roku Streaming Stick, a product that allows people to easily update their existing smart TVs with Roku streaming content. 
SEE ALSO: TV Shows and Movies With the Most-Engaged Fans on GetGlue

New partners include Coby Electronics, Harman Kardon, Hisense Electric, TCL, Voxx Accessories and Westinghouse Digital.
Nearly 5 million Roku players, which have streamed more than 1 billion hours of entertainment, have been sold in the U.S., Roku added.
Christina Warren contributed to the reporting in this article.
The AR.Drone is getting a better battery, improved video capabilities, and GPS. Read all the details.
The Lenovo IdeaCentre Horizon is a 27" touch-friendly computer that you can play tabletop games on. Check out the full story.
This scale doesn't just calculate your weight, it also monitors the temperature and CO2 levels in your house. Check out all the details here.
Get the full story here.
http://mashable.com/2013/01/07/roku-adds-channels-device-partners-ces/