Samsung: 4K Ultra HD Content Will Come

LAS VEGAS — Samsung's massive 85-inch 4K Ultra HD TV is a thing of beauty. When you look at the screen, it's more like looking out a window — the images are that real. Even so, as we all watched Samsung introduce its latest line of cutting-edge electronics and appliances at CES 2013, we were all well aware that the on-screen video was specially prepared high-resolution footage, and 4K content has yet to arrive. Samsung promises that will change.
Tim Baxter, President Samsung Electronics, is optimistic, but suggested patience. "I think you'll see the content start to develop. It's not going to be an overnight proposition," he said.
It's a familiar tale. HDTV's still deliver higher resolution output than most TV networks broadcast. To get the full benefit of your 1080p screen, you need to watch a Blu-ray movie. And let's not forget that early HD wars between Blu-ray and HD DVD further slowed down the HD content transition.
While it's unlikely we'll see a replay of that scenario, Baxter does see parallels. He said, "When HDTVs first hit the market, there was no content available." The Samsung UN85S9000 UHD TV will face a similar situation when it's released.
In the meantime, Baxter said the 4K sets will upgrade your HD content to the 3820 x 2160 screen resolution of Ultra HD TV. Baxter said that will serve as a bridge until the new content arrives.
Samsung has yet to announce pricing and availability for the giant TV.
Baxter also talked to Mashable about the personalization of technology and Samsung's quad-core-processor-sporting Evolution Kit TV Upgrade module. He said pricing has still not been set for the kit. Watch the video above for the full interview. 
Samsung's 2013 lineup of LED TVs are its brightest and slimmest yet.
The bezel is just a quarter of an inch.
This is 85-inches of 4K power.
Samsung presented its press conference to a packed crowd.
The Samsung NX300 is the world's first camera with an interchangeable 3D lens that shoots both stills and video.
Samsung is offering an upgrade kit for its 2012 HDTVs to bring quad-core processing, better connectivity and a whole new interface.
Editor-in-chief Lance Ulanoff and tech reporter Emily Price live blog the event.
It's an ultra-thin, ultra-light, Ultrabook.
The NX300 is Samsung's latest APS-CMOS Compact System Camera.
Photo courtesy of Samsung
http://mashable.com/2013/01/09/samsung-4k-ultra-hd-content/