So What's Up for Amazon in 2013?
Among the Gang of Four in tech right now — Apple, Google, Facebook and Amazon — Amazon is the only business that revolves around content. The company's hardware products are basically buying machines. Amazon is dabbling with advertising as a potentially profitable side business, but that's not where it's heart is. 
At bottom, Amazon really just wants to sell you stuff.
Despite this guiding principle, analysts expect Amazon to continue clashing with at least two of the three predominant ecosystems in 2013. Inevitably, in order to grow you just have to get into new areas that have already been colonized by someone else. 
In 2013, that may mean the first-ever Amazon Phone. Such a device has been rumored for years at this point, but then again, so was an Amazon tablet. Like the Kindle Fire, an Amazon Phone would likely house an Android-based platform customized by Amazon (hence, "Amdroid") that would unify disparate apps like Kindle, the Amazon Appstore Amazon MP3, Amazon Instant Video and the Amazon shopping app. To sweeten the offer, Amazon could, as Sascha Segan at PC Magazine suggests, subsidize carriers' data plans. 
As mentioned, an Amazon Phone would merely be the latest manifestation of the company's overall strategy, which is to make buying on the platform as easy as possible. While we often think of cardboard boxes when we talk of buying on Amazon, increasingly commerce means streams of data, as well. 
SEE ALSO: 5 Marketing Predictions for 2013
Tablets and a possible phone are two ways of lengthening Amazon's reach, but the company is characteristically looking beyond the obvious and finding creative new platforms. One such (ahem) vehicle is Ford's SYNC AppLink, which has now been joined with Amazon's Cloud Player. So for $24.99 a year, you can store up to 250,000 songs in the cloud and use voice control in SyncAppLink to call up your favorite tunes while you're driving. 
Like mobile computing, TV presents another fat target for increased colonization. Though Amazon's streaming video business appears to be a placeholder at the moment, rather than a serious Netflix competitor, it would be naive to think that CEO Jeff Bezos isn't burning calories thinking of a way to get Amazon on more TVs. 
The company was rumored to have been thinking of buying Roku. Assuming that never comes to pass, an Amazon set-top box is certainly a possibility. Of course, developing a viable living room device is easier said than done. Among the Gang of Four, only Apple has managed to build a decent TV streaming device. Even the mighty Google failed to match that feat with its dead-on-arrival Nexus Q last year. 
Amazon is clearly a new kind of beast. It's not a traditional retailer but one with the power to kill off traditional brick-and-mortar retailing. Its main business isn't hardware, but it's shown it can compete there, as well. It's not a media company, but has the power to push around the major book publishers. 
Finally, Amazon possesses the cloud computing heft to be a backbone for many of the web's top sites, including Reddit, Airbnb and Netflix. 
Noah Elkin of eMarketer points out that Amazon has become the back-end host for many web businesses, as well. "The cloud infrastructure is going to continue to be a bigger component of their business," says Elkin. "It seems like an outlier for what Amazon does." Indeed, Amazon's cloud business has become so prevalent that even competitors like Netflix rely on it, sometimes to their detriment. 
With its stronghold on the retail business and the benefit of a relatively young, visionary CEO who puts growth ahead of quarterly profits, Amazon enjoys fairly unrestrained ambitions. 
However, one area the company seems willing to cede is social networking. Perhaps Amazon has come to the same conclusion as Apple: that it doesn't pay to try to compete in social media. Of the Gang of Four, only one — Google — is competing in every major arena — advertising, hardware, media and social media. Perhaps Google is overreaching. A holiday 2012 survey by Baynote showed that two-thirds of consumers go directly to Amazon for price comparisons, rather than to Google. If Google continues to cede ground to Amazon and let the company become the online price checker of record, then Google+ will look like a misdirection of resources and Bezos will once again appear one step of ahead of the competition. 
Photo via Flickr, jurvetson
http://mashable.com/2013/01/09/amazon-predictions-2013/