The Best Wedding RSVP Cards Ever

With wedding season a mere five months away, the invitations will begin pouring in just in time to replace those Christmas cards. 
And when they do, you'll first want to rip your hair out and then begin the tedious RSVP process. 
But sometimes you just need to be able to say something a little bit more elegant than "attending" or "not attending." You need to express yourself, and what other better way than through the magic of memes. 
SEE ALSO: Watch Nearly 4 Minutes Of Wedding Disasters

Redditor babywhiz has blessed us all with that opportunity with this compilation of the best RSVPs ever created. 
So even if your high school BFF4eva sends you an invitation covered with butterflies and glitter and singing babies, feel free to email them back a meme of good ol' creepy Bill Clinton. 
Or you can print it out and mail it back with the included postage so it seems more legit.  
Which one is your favorite? Would you ever use these for your wedding? Share in the comments below. 
BONUS: 15 Unforgettably Quirky Weddings 
Tumblr user krisocalypse is a major Doctor Who fan -- so much that she married her significant other, Tom, in a very Whovian-themed wedding.
Image courtesy of Samantha Robshaw Photography
Matt and Asia bonded over the game Minecraft -- Matt even proposed on stage at MineCon with the help of the game’s creators.
So, naturally, the wedding followed suit, with a lot of DIY and help from fellow Minecraft fans.
Image courtesy of The Goodness
David and Ashley were married this month, making a very bold bridal party fashion statement.
According to the bride's sister Amanda, the unicorn masks were from a long-running joke among family and friends of the couple. Before they started dating, David very loudly, and drunkenly announced that he loved Ashley more than unicorns. 
Image courtesy of Reddit
Andrea and Achim were married in Hello Kitty Puroland in 2004 -- they even have an official Puroland marriage certificate. Both are Hello Kitty enthusiasts, and run the Hello Kitty Museum. 
Image courtesy of Hello Kitty Museum
Randy and Dorothy, better known as Peter Pan and Tink, had their fantasy wedding in 2009. The ceremony was held in Tampa, Fla., where the annual Tampa Bay Renaissance Festival is held.
The entire, extremely detailed ceremony is captured in a virtual scrapbook.
Image courtesy of Peter Pan
Photographer Justin Winokur has an entire gallery dedicated to this Star Wars wedding. 
It was hard for us to narrow it down to just one picture, but this one captures the fun in unconventional weddings perfectly. 
Image courtesy of Justin Winokur
Timothy Tiah Ewe Tiam proposed to Audrey Ooi Feng Ling by holding poster-sized printed memes outside a restaurant in Malaysia.
The couple was married in July, and the reception was inspired by the Pixar film Up.
Image courtesy of Michelle Tiah Photography
Some people reserve the unique cakes for the groom, but this couple went all out. 
Image courtesy of Flickr, deadling
Carrying Internet memes down the aisle is pretty funny, but how many of these guests have no idea what he's doing?
Luckily, the photographer, ND Strupler has an explanation along with his collection of other planking moments he's captured.
Image courtesy of Flickr, strupler
You too can get married at an altitude of 34,000 feet. The company GoZeroG provides weightless flights to the general public, but also charters and hosts weddings for a unique ceremony. 
Image courtesy of Stephen Boxall
In a truly unique Bourbon Street Halloween experience, Frankenstein married his bride outside for spectators to watch.
Image courtesy of Flickr, merrick310
This couple also married on Halloween. The bride and groom were dressed as zombies. Appropriately, we hope they made an ammendment to "'Til death do us part."
Image courtesy of Flickr, emrysroberts
This isn't actually the bride and groom, but two guests at a reception. 
The couple was married on Halloween, and guests dressed in costume after the ceremony.
Image courtesy of Flickr, karlnothing 
Guests attending this clown-themed wedding in Vegas got really into character. According to photographer Justin Winokur, the groom eventually donned the red nose at some points in the evening.
Image courtesy of Justin Winokur
As this groom kissed his new bride, an officiator held up this "achievement unlocked" sign, which is a feature on Xbox Live that doubles as a meme. 
According to attendees, both are avid gamers, and the bride actually made the sign as a surprise for him.
Image courtesy of Reddit
Photo via Imgur. Thumbnail via iStockphoto, timsa.
http://mashable.com/2013/01/09/meme-wedding-rsvp-cards/