We Now Know Why Eric Schmidt is in North Korea
Much controversy and mystery has surrounded Google's Eric Schmidt and former New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson's trip to North Korea. U.S. officials have criticized it, calling it ill-timed given the regime's allegedly illegal launch of a satellite last month. And ever since the first rumors about the trip came out, it hasn't been clear what its purpose was, with Richardson simply calling it a "private humanitarian trip." 
For Google's executive chairman, it turns out the endeavor was all about Internet freedom. 
Schmidt and Richardson told the Associated Press that they are in North Korea to urge regime officials to open up its citizen's access to the Internet and to cellphones. Richardson also said they're asking Pyongyang to halt their missile launches and nuclear tests as well as give a fair treatment to an American citizen detained in the country.
While it wasn't confirmed, the revelation of Schmidt's intentions comes as no surprise. Google has been a proponent of Internet freedom for a long time now, both in the United States (remember its strong stance against SOPA and PIPA?) and abroad (see Google and China's standoff over the communist's regime censorship practices.)
SEE ALSO:  North Korea's Official Website Costs About $15

Schmidt himself has been a vocal supporter of Internet freedom and access. In fact, he has a book coming out titled The New Digital Age: Reshaping the Future of People, Nations and Business, written along with Google Ideas think tank director Jared Cohen. The book will explain how Internet access will change society for the better.
Schmidt and the American delegation hope to dissuade the regime led by the 29-year old Kim Jong-Un to ease up its strict rules on Internet access. Currently, the vast majority of North Koreans have no access to the general Internet, and can only enter the country's intranet, that allows them to visit only stare-run media and government-approved websites. 
Schmidt's visit has already prompted rumors that indicate the regime might be willing to allow a freer access to the World Wide Web. 
Photo via JUNG YEON-JE/AFP/Getty Images
http://mashable.com/2013/01/09/why-eric-schmidt-is-in-north-korea/