Your Home Wi-Fi Is About to Get Faster
Are all your family or roommates' laptops, phones, tablets, gaming consoles and other wireless devices clogging up the invisible pipes that make up your home Wi-Fi network? Good news: That network will soon be faster and support more bandwidth-intensive activity, including streaming high-definition video.
Federal Communications Chairman Julius Genachowski announced during CES Wednesday that the FCC is planning its biggest expansion of wireless spectrum for Wi-Fi in a decade. Specifically, the FCC is opening up to 195 megahertz of unlicensed spectrum in the 5 gigahertz band for high-speed, high-capacity Wi-Fi known as "Gigabit Wi-Fi." 
The move, which will begin next month, will free up unlicensed spectrum for Gigabit Wi-Fi by approximately 35%. Making that spectrum available, argues the FCC in its statement about the plan, will provide for "higher data speeds and greater capacity." 
Translation: those with technology that can make use of Gigabit Wi-Fi are about to see faster speeds and more capability to have multiple devices pulling down lots of data on their personal networks.
Homes aren't the only target of the FCC's upcoming Wi-Fi expansion: it also announced a "government-wide effort" to bolster speeds and lessen congestion at "airports, convention centers and large conference gatherings" — all locations where finding a decent Wi-Fi signal is often a headache. "We all know the frustration of Wi-Fi congestion at conferences and airports," said Genachowski. "Today, the FCC is moving to bring increased speed and capacity to Wi-Fi networks by increasing the amount of unlicensed spectrum for Wi-Fi. As this spectrum comes on line, we expect it to relieve congested Wi-Fi networks at major hubs like convention centers and airports.  It will also help in homes as tablets and smartphones proliferate and video use rises."
SEE ALSO: FCC OKs Television-to-Wireless Data Spectrum Auctions

The FCC's move is the latest in its ongoing efforts to reform spectrum availability for an increasingly mobile world.
Do you want faster Wi-Fi in your home or other congested hubs? Share your thoughts in the comments.
Photo courtesy of iStockphoto, franckreporter
http://mashable.com/2013/01/10/faster-wifi/