General Electric Company (NYSE:GE)
2015 Electrical Products Group Conference Call
May 20, 2015 11:30 AM ET
Executives
Jeff Immelt - Chairman and CEO
Unidentified Company Representative
Okay everyone, let’s get started. We’ve got the Anchor Presentation with GE’s Jeff Immelt, CEO and Chairman. Thank you, Jeff.
Jeff Immelt
Great, thanks. Good morning everybody. It’s great to be back in luxurious setting, so it’s good to be back at EPG. I’m going to start just I think you’ve heard a lot about the environment this week. But I’d say the world we’re seeing is kind of the world we prepared for, decent growth out there, more volatility.
The world we’re in infrastructure is still pretty strong. I don’t see anything at all that’s inflationary, so we still see good opportunities on value GAAP and the oil and gas industry is kind of what we prepared for and FX is headwind but it’s stabilized. So that’s kind of the world we thought we were going to get into in December and that’s the world we’re seeing today.
So, I’m going to go through four things today. We’re going to have a good 2015. So, everything is on track there. I’ll talk a lot about how we grow the industrial business consistently and the initiatives we have in place are going to continue to drive great growth there.
I’m going to give you an update on GE Capital and where we stand from a capital allocation standpoint in general. And then just talk about the earnings potential the company going forward and how we see the next few years playing out. And these are the things I think ultimately creates shareholder value for GE investors.
So, first, just no surprises on the year, I think the year has kind of a come the way we thought. The power business is going to have a good year, good solid year, even in tougher market, the oil and gas business I’ll talk a little bit more about kind of what we expected for the year. The team is actually doing well in a tougher environment.
Energy management is a turnaround story, so earnings right there is really driven more by our improved execution than it is by industry tailwind. Aviation is going to be better than we thought when we said here in, when we’re in the December outlook meeting.
Healthcare actually, we see the U.S. market in healthcare getting better, that’s still the biggest market for healthcare. So, we’re encouraged by the results we see there. Transportation saw that big backlog, nice position there in appliances we’ll sell this year. And the lighting is doing okay, LEDs replacing incandescent lights. So that’s kind of the tale of the tape of segments, are in pretty good shape. And we’ll continue to do restructuring but all our restructuring will be offset by gains for the year.
And then, here is the framework we shared with you at the first quarter conference call for the company, still on track, good solid industrial EPS growth $1.10 to $1.20, GE Capital verticals of $0.15 like we’ve said going forward. We think we’re kind of ahead of plan. I’ll talk more about GE Capital but we talked about having $90 billion of assets sold, we think that will be $100 billion or more as we look at the year.
Free cash flows, we’re going to have a good second quarter on cash. So free cash flow and cash generation on track.
And then the amount of return to investors is really, it depends a lot on Synchrony. It’s still our expectation that we get Synchrony done by the end of this year. And we don’t see anything standing in the way or they should stand in the way of our ability to do that. So that’s kind of the framework for the company and where we stand.
So, here is the company, right. So if you think about all the portfolio moves we’ve made, and think about the company going forward, I would say we’re financially strong, financially in good shape. And the strategies that we put in place over the years are quite well positioned for the company.
So, post-Alstom, the ins and outs will be about $135 billion leadership businesses, strong backlog, at the top of the stack in margins and returns, financially a really strong returning $90 billion to investors in terms of what we talked about GE Capital and dividends and the Synchrony split, the capacity for another $20 billion as we really bring the GE balance sheet in line with other industrial peers, so lots of cash optionality.
So the company is very financially, I’d say well positioned. And then strategically, all of our initiatives are in full flight. So, generational leadership in NPI, we’ve got the broadest, deepest global footprint, we’ve got services backlog that is huge, we’ve got 65% of the company’s processes going into shared services and on a pathway to 12% of SG&A revenue.
And I think from a digital standpoint both in terms of productivity inside the company and also our ability to drive incremental service growth, we’re ahead of our peers and well positioned on the age of the industrial internet to really be a leader in this space. So, financially and strategically, I think the company is in very good shape going forward.
Now, oil and gas is kind of what we thought it was going to be. We’re still on track operationally to have earnings from flat to down 5. I think when you add an FX we look at earnings this year between down 5 and down 10 versus last year. We take a lot of strong actions. We’ve continued to invest in NPI. Our portfolio has really been, I’d say working to our advantage. So, businesses like turbo-machinery, downstream are still quite strong and able to offset some of the headwind in some of the other segments.
We’ll take $600 million of cost out this year. And we’re really, I think positioning ourselves well with our customers. So oil and gas, I’d say operationally it seems to be doing a good job in the environments. And we’re going to be well positioned and agile when we look at 2016. So, we’ve taken lots of actions, I think we’re pretty well positioned for the orders that are out there and then we’ll see how it goes for us this year, but we expect to have a good business going forward in oil and gas.
And then we’ve always talked about making this business better during the cycles. And I think what it takes to be better during this cycle is really three big things. One is, you’ve got to do technically those things that are going to offer better solutions for the customers at a lower oil price environment, and we’re doing those things, product structuring, services and that is really positioning us to win.
You’ve got to continue to take cost out, so we’ll have between what we do this year and what we do next year, we’ll have $1 billion of cost out. So, that creates a, I’d say good buffer in terms of where the industry is going. And you got to win more accounts.
So the balance of the portfolio, positioning ourselves with national oil companies, things like that, that’s very important in this business. So, we know we’re going to go through this cycle better than we came in. I think from a financial standpoint we’re going to look better than our peers and continue to execute in this cycle.
Alstom, we still really like this deal. We think strategically it does a lot for the company it’s broadly supported in the marketplace. We’ve got a huge pool of synergies that we can execute on in Alstom, it builds out a lot of capability in terms of a global footprint and services. It gives us a chance to really reposition the grid business for future growth, so a ton of things we really like in Alstom.
We’ve had a chance I think to eliminate risk from a compliance standpoint, we’ve hired people from Bechtel to help us on integration, to look at the project and project management, so we’ve had a chance to dig through all the projects.
And the challenges on the deals that the market is flat, so the market is sluggish and the processes in Europe put those companies in play for 15 months and that’s tough on a business like this. But we like this deal.
We’re confident that it’s going to get approved, right, this is a deal that’s good for GE, it’s good for Europe, it’s good for investors, it’s a competitive market. And we remain confident that this deal will get approved around the world. We’ve already seen a number of approvals already take place. And yes, like I’ve always said, we’re only going to do a deal that’s good for investors and that’s the way I would look at Alstom going forward.
Now the synergies have only grown, right. So when we hear a year ago, we talked about $1.2 billion of synergies, today we’ve got a funnel of $3 billion or above so we got a deep pool of synergies. This adds up to $0.06 to $0.09 a share and $0.15 to $0.20 a share by ‘18. We’ve had hundreds of people working on the integration and synergy process. So I’d say the one advantage to having time to work on it is, this is probably the most studied synergy team and synergy plan in the history of the company so we feel really good that we’re well grounded.
And then, I show you the walk from $1.2 billion to $3 billion in terms of where the synergies come from, more in service, we just see bigger potential there. A lot we can do with the manufacturing footprint. SG&A, we’ll take out 25% plus of the combined SG&A and more technical synergies. So we’ve got, I think a well underwritten investment for our investors that is well positioned in terms of where we go in the future.
And then, I think when you think about how to grow a business like this, one of the more straight forward ways to grow is just pull-through. So if you look at a combined cycle power plant, today we have 30% of the content, post-Alstom we’ll have 60% of the content available.
If you look at a wind turbine plant today, we have 65% of the content with Alstom we’ll 75% of the content. On EBOP, so balance of plans we have almost on 30% with Alstom we have 70%. So, the ability to put together the GE and the Alstom components and technologies on a combined cycle power plant, we think this is a big competitive advantage. On wind turbine this is a very straight forward, low risk synergy. And this gives us a gain versus Siemens and ABB, we just haven’t had before from a standpoint of technology.
And then, think about a business like power conversion, this really transforms the power conversion business that we acquired a couple of years ago from $2 billion but one they were growing earnings, Alstom gives us fantastic capability to go with that new technology. And we’ll come out in our power conversion business as a much stronger competitor with ABB going forward, rapid earnings growth, more capability.
So, I think financially, strategically, growth and cost we like the Alstom deal and where we stand and how it positions the company.
We have a generational leadership in NPI, okay. So we have invested in the past and the investment is paying off for all of us in this room as we stand here today, right. The H-turbine really the only segment of the global power market is growing right now is the large scale, the H-segment. And that’s now 30% of the market and we have strong market share there.
The lead product will be $200 billion in its lifetime. We just flew the Airbus Neo yesterday on the LEAP engine, so we feel great about that where we stand from an engine technology standpoint, 79% market share. Tier 4, very strong leadership in the tier 4, the only one that’s approved that will ship this year, we’ve got a great array of healthcare products coming through the system and will allow us to gain share in that market as U.S. gets better.
Strong LNG leadership in turbo-machinery, we’re doing all of the invertors in solar and wind, so real strength. But beyond that I was at a research center on Monday. The amount of manufacturing technology we have today is really going to allow us to work, I think really get our product cost down as we launch these new technologies and drive product margins up. So, it should cost new technology growing at factories, this is all in really good shape inside the company.
So, in addition to the moves we made to the portfolio, our initiatives like NPI is quite strong. Globally, the company continues to be in excellent shape, we’ll continue to grow our growth market orders and revenue this year even with the amount of volatility that’s going on around the world, we see great balance and strength. China will be good for us for the year and we’ll see good growth in other regions as well.
Alstom adds maybe $10 billion of revenue in growth markets so we’ll be $60 billion plus or minus in the growth market. This gives us tremendous scale advantage versus anybody else that’s out there, it gives us more capability in places like Middle East and Africa so we feel good about that. And look, there’s orders out there to be had right now, there was going to be a lot of power deals in the Middle East this year, there is oil and gas fields in Africa, Sub-Sahara and Africa, there is big rail deals in Africa and Brazil.
We’re building out the life sciences business globally so there is $0.5 billion of business for the bioprocess manufacturing business in China and India, this year. There will be $3 billion worth of narrow-body orders this year in China. So look, there is plenty of growth out there when you look at growth markets and where we stand, and we’ll get more than our fair share in this activity.
Services continues to grow, our margins are up to 32%. We’re growing the dollars per installed base by 3%, again when you think about Alstom synergies, Alstom has $5 billion of service revenue with 10 points less of margins than we’ve got today, so tremendous synergy.
Alstom expands our install base by 50% so this is another 500 gigawatts of installed base that we get with Alstom and closing the gap with upgrades, using the same footprint, Alstom brings multi-vendor service capability that we really like. So services is a core part of our competitive advantage, a core part of our synergy and we see good opportunities here as well.
We’ve talked in the past about the investments we’ve made. We’ve had an investor meeting last year in New York City around the investments we’ve made in analytics and this continues to build out. I’d say on the growth side, we’re launching this year Predix which is the operating platform for analytics that GE is going to offer to both customers and non-customers as well.
Packaging software with controls, which is a great way to approach the installed base. We’ve got individual software suites what we call asset performance management that goes out after all of our assets and upgrades services and service capability and enterprise software. So we’ve got all the technical components.
On the right-hand side, we’re also taking the same technology to our plants. So we are big driver of our variable cost productivity is going to be the ability to do analytics on our plants where the suppliers are, what we can get from a productivity standpoint in terms of uptime and also driving services productivity, so big suite of field engineers and the like.
You’re going to see 1,000 commercials about internet of things, industrial internet, everybody down here I’m sure talked about it. Mark my words, the ability to combine knowledge of the assets’ physics and analytics is a killer competitive advantage. And we can demonstrate failure in performance better than any horizontal company or any vertical company as we look to that.
And you can eat it. Investors are going to be able to eat this in terms of the investment that we’ve made. So when we look at kind of software and Predix related business is growing 20% a year, we’re already at scale. We see this growing to $8 billion by 2017. 70% of it is going to be on Predix so 70% is going to be on our own operating system. This is going to get $300 million to $500 million of productivity.
We’re basically paying for this investment with our own productivity savings incremental productivity savings. So as an investor, you kind of get the growth for free as you look at this investment. $500,000 assets under management, dollars per installed base, the lower left is an example of what we can do in any one of our businesses, which is to build a suite of applications that we can now write rapidly for our investors or for our customers.
On the right-hand side, Field Vantage is a combination of sensors and software that goes into an onshore drilling system. This gives you 6% more output that ought to be $100 million business within three years.
Digital Wind we launched yesterday. This ought to give a customer 20% more output of their wind investment so tremendous opportunities for incremental service revenue growth. Imaging cloud, that would be $2 billion of let’s say post processing imaging, will be in the cloud by 2019, we ought to have at least a third of that, maybe half of that.
Sensor enablement, just by putting sensors on the manufacturing floors and getting more visibly on uptime, that’s $9 million per factor just on transportation so this how real inside GE and we’re making great progress in terms of where we go.
I love where we’re on margins. We’re making great progress. I’m proud of the team. Fantastic momentum in margins, you saw that last couple of years but certainly in the first quarter, we’re on track for 17% goal by 2016. Jeff and Dan Heintzelman are leading the initiative around gross margins so, we target 50 basis points a year, we’re way above that in the first quarter and we see good progress there.
We’re attacking every element of the cost base so the teams are looking at, what we call the critical axis of how do you get variable cost down, how do you get gross margins up. So, supplier productivity cost of quality, we’ve got teams that are targeted around each one of the areas of gross margins. So, we’ve got really great momentum I would say as a company around where we’re going in margins.
Our businesses are all fundamentally in the game. So you’ve got aviation which is really, does this mean I’m not going to get my psychiatry session while I’m down here? Okay, thanks, good.
On the aviation side, we’re really working hard on getting cost out of the launch. So the goal on aviation is to get the target cost in half the time. So if you hung around this business, it’s worth hundreds of millions of dollars as we do it.
In the power, it’s all about operating cost per hour OCPH, so with all the facilities we’re bringing in with Alstom that is going to be a core driver of long-term productivity. Healthcare that has the most rapid product cycles, this is all about getting should cost and all the products that we launched through there.
In oil and gas, as we integrate all of our acquisitions, this is really about leveraging our supply chain and getting more efficiency there. So, company wise we drive tools like should cost into the system. Each individual business with a new incentive comp plan is really wired just want to generate gross margin and gross margin goals. So we got this really well positioned inside the company.
Simplification, we’re on track to 12% by 2016, here again Alstom has higher SG&A than GE has on about half the revenue, so we’ve got a massive opportunity to get synergies out of putting Alstom and GE together. We’re targeting about 25% of the cost out, I think we can still do better than that. And we continue to make progress on ERP reduction as being a big source of simplification savings. So we’re well on our way to being under 100 ERPs going forward.
Restructuring, we’ve done $5 billion since 2013, so we’ve done a lot on the footprint. And fast-forward switch is our tool to drive better NPI speed better capability inside the business is making your progress as well. So we continue to be on a great pathway on SG&A and gross margins.
And then the last piece of cost is just corporate cost. So we’re on path for $2.3 billion to $2.5 billion this year. We’ll be below that next year, we continue to make good moves around corporate costs going forward. I think the big challenges for us going forward are when we really reduce GE Capital substantially. We’ve got to run the place with one corporate, right. So that’s going to be a cost takeout challenge that we’re going to have to do as we shrink GE Capital.
With Alstom, the notion on corporate cost is one plus one equals one. There will be one corporate function in terms of how we run the company going forward. And just in general, we’re going to invest in the GE store. Those things we do horizontally, we’re going to have one-layer governance. And we just aren’t going to have hobbies and we just have to continue to drive corporate cost down.
So, our pension continues to be a drag. As you look forward, improvement in interest rates certainly helps as that goes forward. But I think we’ve got a pretty good bandwidth to continue to take corporate cost down as time goes on.
We think the verticals are good advantage for GE. These are good business, these are good financing businesses right. So we can generate returns well in excess of our cost to capital. We’ve got domain expertise as it pertains to the industries we’re in. So, we see these as really excellent financing businesses, and ones that we can continue to invest and grow.
But they’re also good for the entire company they’re also good for our industrial company as well. So it gives us unique knowledge of the assets. It allows us I think to do a better job of picking which engines we fund and which engines we don’t fund, the knowledge of financing.
GE Capital does a great job of underwriting project finance globally around energy. So it gives us a tremendous advantage when we’re trying to pull together export finance and other financing pieces. And it really helps us in areas like healthcare where customers want to go from CapEx to OpEx, GE Capital adds a ton of value for that. So, again, we like how the GE Capital businesses are fitting with the industrial portfolio.
So, if I just capped off how you think about us growing industrial earnings over time. I think we’ve got substantial - even a company our size, substantial initiatives around NPI, improving the service growth rate, portfolio strength. Service cycles, good times and bad, we ought to be able to grow the place organically at least 5%. I mean, that’s kind of the way I think about the company and how you go forward.
From a margin standpoint, if you get 50 basis points improved on gross margins and you take SG&A down to 12% and you fix some underperforming assets, this is just arithmetic. We ought to hit 17%. We are on that pathway. The execution momentum is there.
At 17% returns we’ll make good progress this year. We just have to get our cash conversion up, we want to get over the next few years from the 85% to 95%. You get, we’ve had, we’ve been in the big reinvestment cycle around the new products we’ve launched and some of global footprint. But we probably got $1 billion in CapEx that we can continue to see our way through, and we got to get another $1 billion out of working capital and that gets you up to 95% and that’s about where we should be going forward.
And then Alstom is what I just talked about, this is a complementary business in industries we know. We have thousands of GE people that know how to run these businesses, right. This is one that’s not a faraway, far flung enterprise. This is kind of what we know how to do and how to get there. So, you really have the levers of driving industrial growth in place. On the field, we got to execute but these initiatives are already delivering and we feel good about how they’re positioned for the future.
So, shift gears, let’s talk about GE Capital execution. On the left-hand side is we’ve talked about on April 10 mainly. So $65 billion of Synchrony, which again, our expectation is it does gets executed by the end of this year. And then we said we do $90 billion in ‘15, $70 billion in ‘16, $17 billion in ‘17 and that we would release $20 billion that would go into the stock exchange split in Synchrony and $35 billion that we get from the capital axis that we used to buy back stock.
And the right-hand side is kind of what we said on April 10 was this is a great time to be selling assets because growth is slow, interest rates are low, there is a ton of liquidity. And I’d say we’re right on this, I mean, we’re fundamentally right.
There is 450 increase, we’d already done $45 billion including commercial real-estate in Australia the deals you saw announced. We will have another $20 billion or $30 billion signed by the end of the second quarter. I’d say if you think about what we thought in the year, we said $90 million - we’ll do $100 billion. We said we’d have all sales completed by ‘17, I think we’ll be done by ‘16.
$35 billion, we’re confident of that number, let’s see as deals close, I don’t want to jinx it or anything like that but we’ll see those deals close. Timing of dividend is on track. SIFI de-designation, look, we are going to go forward next year and there is a formal process in terms of how we do it. Look, I’d be disappointed if we don’t beat these numbers, right. I think we’ve got the potential to do very well on this transaction at this time, and we’re going to start off extremely well.
So, who gets the money, right? This is again, just talking about there is going to be a ton of cash generated and answer is primarily you, or primarily our investors are going to get dividend growth, right. You’re going to get the Synchrony split comes back and $20 billion, the $35 billion coming from GE Capital that comes back.
And then, if you think about all the companies that are here this week, how their balance sheet is levered, where we are today, again, this is something that’s not going to happen overnight. But as we continue the shrinking GE Capital, it doesn’t really make sense for us to have an, AA balance sheet and things like that. We’re going to have more of an industrial, what I would say an industrial balance sheet. That should free-up another $20 billion.
Now in our base plan, we’ve already allowed for $10 billion to do M&A over the next few years. We’ll generate another $5 billion to $10 billion in dispositions let’s say over that time period, so that’s not the $20 billion, the $20 billion is above all that, above and beyond all that. So, just in our flow, we’re going to do some acquisitions as time goes on. And it’s going to be core bolt-on deals, good returns, mixture of growth and cost. And I’ll take it from there, look guys we’re investing plenty in our core platforms. We’ve got great aviation business, great healthcare business, we just don’t need big deals, right, we can continue to grow the company just fine.
So, you’ve basically got $90 billion spoken for, $20 billion that’s going to be available. We’ve got money dedicated to M&A that’s already in the plan and this is kind of the framework that we’re going to execute on. So that’s where the company is, and that’s what the GE Capital gives us the chance to do.
And then, what that all adds up to is just how you think about the company going forward. So, you start with $1.10 or $1.20 a share, right. You do verticals and industrial, that’s $1.25 to $1.35. The Synchrony and the GE Capital exit, that’s announced and in process, right. We’re pretty confident with where we’re going to end up but that’s what’s underway, right.
You’ve got Alstom at $0.15 to $0.20 a share, but again, a lot of execution has to go to that but that’s where we are. And then you say okay, industrially if you grow your industrial EPS that’s where our proper EPS, 4% a year over the next couple of years, that gets you to $2. Now, I’m going to run the company to a higher number than that, right. But again in this room you guys can build your own models and think about how you run the place but that’s just a baseline of the economics of how you think about the company going forward.
So, if you get 5% organic growth, if you’re able to do the job in margins, if we execute the way we think we can execute, on all the core growth initiatives we have inside the company, we’re going to be substantially above 4% annual growth, but that’s the way you can look at the company going forward, so that’s GE.
I think, we like the portfolio, we like the moves we have made, strong portfolio, balanced portfolio really in good shape. All the initiatives I talked about today aren’t things we’re going to do, the things we’re doing. So, organic growth, margins, all the things we’ve done. The tremendous amount of capital flexibility let’s say, cash flexibility, in terms of the company going forward and it’s all down to execution. I think you see the pathway to execution here that can create a ton of shareholder value going forward.
Some let me end there and take some questions. Do I call or do you choose?
Question-and-Answer Session
A - Jeff Immelt
So, I’ll start with Deans [ph], he is the big man, Deans [ph] the big host.
Unidentified Analyst
Great, thank you, Jeff. Probably more change in the organization I’ve ever seen all at one time, balance sheet, P&L, returns, and real specific targets. It just, one of the hurdles near term, it’s a little bit less out of your control as the Alstom approvals and certainly the tone seems a little bit better than during earnings when there was some uncertainty. But there are some big hurdles ahead.
And it just raises the question is there a line which you would draw that says this deal is not the same that we signed up for that, the returns for shareholders don’t make as much sense? And maybe if you could just provide some color on that?
Jeff Immelt
I think, look, guys, this is a process. We have done 41 deals in the last decade through Europe this deal is in the process of being approved all around the world. It’s a competitive market, our customers have supported us. So you have a ton of things that are just in our favor as we go through it, and it’s just a process. I mean, you’re going to read a headline here, a headline there but you just got to look at the big picture.
I would say, look, what we would be willing to do is, maybe sell intellectual property around the property, something like that as remedy. What we’re not going to do is anything that impacts the service revenue stream, right. So that gives you two guide-rails I would say to think about.
Unidentified Analyst
Hi Jeff, so just to be clear on this double plus sign and the $2 number that you gave us for 2018, that does not include the benefits of the $20 billion additional balance, it’s all on top of the $2 right?
Jeff Immelt
Right.
Unidentified Analyst
Okay.
Jeff Immelt
What I was really trying to give you guys is an arithmetic thought piece, right, in terms of saying 4%, you hit the 4% you get to $2. The last couple of years we’ve done 10, 6, 10, things like that, team is going to be doing more. And it doesn’t include any additional optionality around the $20 billion.
Unidentified Analyst
And then, you more than doubled the synergy number that you’ve been talking to us about for Alstom. And one question is, you had about $900 million of cost associated with that original $1.2 billion. How much and I didn’t see?
Jeff Immelt
It’s more cost.
Unidentified Analyst
What the $900 million go to for the three?
Jeff Immelt
Jeff, what is the cost of getting the synergies go to? Yes, so it’s more cost, it’s more like $1 billion - see it’s more like $1.5 billion of cost to get the three.
Unidentified Analyst
Okay. And then, just in terms of getting those, there is a lot of manufacturing commentary in there in the footprint and a lot of other G&A you had in line items. And yet, we know there are certain restrictions on what you can do based on your agreements to get this deal done. So, how should we think about that from kind of global perspective, the levers that you actually do have to pull that we can believe that that’s reasonable even in light of a deterioration of the core business which I’ll throw in?
Jeff Immelt
So, what I would say is, the commitments we made are in France, do we’re going to honor those commitments. The way to think about, there is just, there is footprint everywhere in a deal like this. So, Croatia, Belgium, Italy, there is a massive - China, Mexico, U.S. So the way I would think about it is we’re going to rationalize the SG&A is straight forward. From a manufacturing standpoint, rationalized facilities and then fill them up.
And then there are things in the supply chain right now, the Alstom makes - there are things that Alstom buys that GE makes. And so these are extremely straight forward synergies, in other words, the execution risk on the synergies on a deal like this is relatively small, this is not a big leap in terms of how to do it, right Steve. So I think that’s - France we have commitments throughout the places, these are all things we’ve done before. Yes.
Unidentified Analyst
Just a question, Alstom is done, you lose the SIFI designation. What are the three top priorities maybe by business or area for the industrial business once you have sort of the new energy, sort of full steam ahead?
Jeff Immelt
Look, I think for you guys, if I think about what is, what if it gives incremental growth margin returns when you think about the company going forward. I think executing on the big product launches. If we can pull, if we can do H-learning curve a year faster, LEAP learning curve a year faster, that’s not like $7 million, that’s like hundreds of millions of bucks.
And so, the way I would think about it as an investor is to say we’ve already won in the marketplace on these things, in other words the engine wars are kind of over the H-turbine wars are in the process of being over, right these things. Now that the question is can we execute from a supply chain standpoint manufacturing standpoint, so, Andrew I’d say that’s number one.
I think number two is, if we can use software analytics and all the things we’re doing to get maybe another two points of organic growth around services that, is right to the bottom line that is massively advantageous. And then I’d say in the short-term, it’s getting our cash conversion back up to 95%, I think if we can do that that just gives a lot of latitude around cash and capital and things like that.
Unidentified Analyst
And just a follow-up question, $20 billion of capability as I think about it, which businesses in order?
Jeff Immelt
I think it’s all about returns. In other words, guys, the way I would think about us today is we don’t need to do anything. Aviation is in good shape, power is in good shape, healthcare is in good shape, Alstom helps energy management a lot. Business like aviation, let’s say last five years in aviation, we’ve done probably $5 billion of acquisitions and $1 billion of divestitures. So that’s a five-year life in the history of GE Lamp for one of our businesses.
So, with that they did Avio, they did a software acquisition, they did a service shop JV, they’ve done some supply chain things, that will generate a couple of hundred million dollars of incremental margin over the years, blah, blah, blah. So I don’t think we need to do much and it’s all about returns at that point. And what’s the highest return and where can we go. Yes
Unidentified Analyst
Just a question on sort of getting around to equipment margins and kind of getting around the free cash conversion, was there a dynamic where the service growth and the service margin expansion which is so good that people get addicted to it, and why is it that there - why is it that now it’s been sort of the time to turn to equipment margins, turn to free cash flow?
Jeff Immelt
I expect the free cash flow first. I think what we were in over the last five years, an incredibly heavy ramp up in aviation power and global, right. So, you’re building factories in Nigeria, you’re building - you’re doing all the tooling for the LEAP, the GNX, H-turbine things like that. I think we see those now transitioning to being into ongoing production versus new P&E ramp.
And I would say, on the product margin side, I think we’ve made slow progress but now we’re close to what we’ve done on the services side. And we just want to do better. We just think we can do better and need to do better. So I’d say free cash flow is a little bit different story than on the product side, but I think the - we started heavy on manufacturing investment in terms of getting product really dedicated product cost over the last two or three years, and so now it’s more in the pipeline so that we can eat it going forward.
Unidentified Analyst
And then just on the $20 billion, how do you arrive at that number, I mean, I imagine with the stability of your service profit stream that make the case for to lever out more than the average industrial but what are the parameters?
Jeff Immelt
It’s a conceptual thing. So you’re going to have couple of billion dollars more let’s say just EBITDA given Alstom and stuff like that as time goes on. We’re assuming a little bit of growth from an interest rate standpoint to determine what the pension obligations are going to be. And then the rest is just, arithmetic and going from AA to A or things like that. So one is a rating metric, the other one is what your ongoing EBITDA going to be, and then the third thing is just kind of what’s your assumption going to be on interest rates and pension, right. Hi Jeff.
Unidentified Analyst
Thanks Jeff. Two questions, one just following on, on that, is there any preliminary discussion with regulators about that thought process and the nature of my question is to actually succeed in de-designation, do you foresee having to make some kind of commitments or promises about how the company might be levered given that you will still have roughly $100 billion finance business?
Jeff Immelt
Jeff, again we don’t have to issue any new debt for probably five years, so you’d kind of take that off the table. I think on the de-designation, nobody really knows. We’re going to be the first company that goes through that. I think we’re always triangulating between, my sense is that when you reach a certain size you’re kind of out. I don’t think you’re in like half way-house or something like that. I think you’re actually out.
And then the conversation goes back to Moody’s and S&P and how we have to issue debt and things like that. So we don’t slow that up there because we want to be foolish, in other ways, we want to safe and secure. We’re going to walk before we run in terms of de-designation.
But I do it as much the signal to you guys is that look, we’re not going to get out, we’re not going to get to 2017 and 2018 and then say, okay, now let’s go GE Capital. We’re an industrial company. We’re going to have an industrial balance sheet, we’re going to think about ourselves that way, that’s how we’re going to run ourselves, that’s how we’re going to govern ourselves.
Unidentified Analyst
And then on the sales side of the portfolio, it does appear that the demand has been strong enough, as you said that perhaps get this all done a year earlier. That strong demand doesn’t seem like it’s manifested in a change in your exit price and perhaps you’re being conservative. Could you just address that as how much room do you think there is in that $35 billion?
Jeff Immelt
Jeff, again, it’s - the early trades are going to be good compared with the $35 billion but there is so much yet to do that I just don’t want to jinx it or anything else in terms of go forward. And so, we’re just triangulating between speed and value, right. And our job for you is to get those two things right. So there is so much demand that it’s hard to see this not being essentially done by next year, but we want to balance that with what the exit price is.
Unidentified Analyst
Hi Jeff, so can you just maybe expand on what you mean by using the verticals as some advantage going forward, you’ve always had that advantage. Does that change the new world and the new more focused geo-capital world? And specifically if XM does go away, I’m not saying it will if it does, can the verticals fill that gap?
Jeff Immelt
So, right, to the way I would think about it is, there has been one hallmark that’s helped the company over time here, and that is we try to think about these things separately. So we don’t lower our standards to just pull through product and we’re not going to change that. And I think the point I’m trying to make is, we’re the smart money on these assets.
So, when we sit down with an ITP in Mexico or something like that, we’re the smartest money at the table. GE cash is the smartest money at the table. And we plan to continue to leverage that. When it gets to XM, I think Nigel, what we have the latitude to do is we’re going to move production around and take advantage of other UCAs, right.
So we can go to Canada, we can go to France we can go to other countries. And god forbid if there was ever something so stupid as the XM went away, we just move production around and take advantage for the places.
Unidentified Analyst
And then quickly on the Alstom project backlog, just to clarify that point, do you understand where the risks are therefore you take marks quickly or you’re pretty comfortable with that backlog?
Jeff Immelt
So, the day we announced the Alstom deal, I called Riley Bechtel, who has been a friend of mine a long time and I said I need a couple of retired Bechtel guys who are going to join our integration team and help us pull through the backlog of projects and that’s what we’ve done.
So, I would say it’s not that all the projects are beautiful, there is a few in the portfolio that aren’t that great, we just know where they are, how to remediate them and how they get on it. So, we’ve had the advantage of having some really smart projects people work with us shoulder to shoulder as we’re going through. And we had accessed all the data. Yes.
Unidentified Analyst
Hi, just a question on healthcare. You haven’t talked about it much today you had a change in leadership last year. So, maybe talk about how much of that business is still attractive for you? And then secondly within oil and gas, there is $1 billion of cost out, does that preclude the acquisitions of any meaningful size?
Jeff Immelt
Yes, so, the way I would think about, we’re going to have an Investor Meeting later this year on healthcare which I think would be a great chance to get everybody back in it. There are three segments of healthcare essentially, one is diagnostic products, imaging products, that was actually getting better, the U.S. market is coming back, the U.S. is still a big swinger in that space that’s really important.
About a third of it is life sciences, that business is booming, right, the life science business is super strong. And then the third leg of that one is services and IT, and services and IT is the place where I think we’ve got massive upside as we look forward in terms of the business now.
There are certain places that are slowing down, the China healthcare market is slower this year than it was last, Middle East was slower this year than it was last and things like that. So, let’s put that to one side. So I think that’s healthcare. And we’re actually from - I would say from a market standpoint we’re in a lot better shape today in healthcare given U.S. starting to rebound than we’ve been over the last couple of years.
And then if you look at oil and gas, I’d say first thing I’d say, assets are yet to be re-priced. So it’s not like there is any startling deals. And kind of within the metrics I showed you up there in terms of the $10 billion over three years or the chance of sell things to buy other things. There are still places in oil and gas we like that if the price got right, we’d look seriously at places. Really, I mean, I think this is a cyclical business where the endpoint is going to point up. And we want to be positioned to be in a good place when that takes place.
Unidentified Analyst
Hi Jeff, so it would be the $3 billion in Alstom and the big number fully recognized as the five-year plan. How are you guys thinking about the trajectory of when you get the synergy benefits? And as it relates to $0.15 to $0.20 that you have coming in from Alstom, but what are you expecting out of the underlying business?
Jeff Immelt
Jeff, do you have the lay-in between synergies and the underlying business on Alstom, in the $0.15 to $0.20 case?
Unidentified Company Representative
We’re definitely closing that gap. And so, when we get to 2018 we’re close, probably close to run rate in terms of how we think about the business going forward. From there, most of the upside from an earnings perspective will be seen through all of the growth synergies that Jeff talked about going through product, leveraging the install base for deeper penetration on services.
I think Jeff talked about the fact that margins in the services business and Alstom is about 10 points lower than it is in our own business etcetera. So, there will be some accretion beyond the 2018. But we’re close to run rate at that point.
Unidentified Analyst
Okay, good.
Unidentified Analyst
We’re running out of time here. One last question, no? It’s all yours for the wrap up then.
Jeff Immelt
Well, great. So then I think a lot to go through. But the company is in, we like how the company is positioned right now. I mean, I’ve been coming down here a long time. I think everything in the next two or three years is more or less in our control to execute on. And that’s a good place, if you’re running any company, that’s a good place to be. So, I feel fantastic about being able to see it, touch it, feel it and the execution is on us. We can get this done. Okay, great. Thanks.
Copyright policy: All transcripts on this site are the copyright of Seeking Alpha. However, we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists, and are excited to contribute to the democratization of financial information on the Internet. (Until now investors have had to pay thousands of dollars in subscription fees for transcripts.) So our reproduction policy is as follows: You may quote up to 400 words of any transcript on the condition that you attribute the transcript to Seeking Alpha and either link to the original transcript or to www.SeekingAlpha.com. All other use is prohibited.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL, CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION, AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS. IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.