General Electric Company (NYSE:GE)
Annual Outlook Investor Meeting
December 16, 2014 3:00 PM ET
Executives
Jeff Immelt - Chairman and CEO
Jeff Immelt
Let's get started. All the forward-looking stuff okay, we will get right to business. A year ago we stood here and we have talked about kind of an outline for the year that was going to be an active year and I think we have done what we set out to do, aggressive portfolio reshaping underway, good industrial execution including a tonne of restructuring, so over the last two years we've done more than $4 billion of restructuring to improve the cost base of the Company, simpler structure, smaller GE Capital and a focus on returns. So I think as I go through this pivot in 2015 and 2016 what you are going to see is the world's best infrastructure company where every business in the Company leverages the core competency and very tightly the core capability of the Company. $40 billion returned to investors over the next few years in dividends in the Synchrony splits, so kind of what we outlined last year is underway.
Substantial EPS tailwind with restructuring, Alstom, buyback, not having restructuring exceed gains, industrial execution, smaller GE Capital and continuing to make it smaller and culture of simplification and accountability and I’ll talk about all those things today. And the output of that is going to be a good solid double-digit EPS growth for the next few years and our providence is earnings, industrial earnings exceeding 75% of our total earnings and expanding margins and returns, so I am going to talk about all these things as we go through today.
Watchers of CNBC you know there’s a lot going on in the world, so that’s kind of the mode we are in today, somewhat more better, I’d say the U.S. economy still feels like it’s getting better air travel, rail travel quite strong, even today U.S. healthcare running the edges getting a little bit better, something is the same, most of the growth markets are the same natural gas prices, power demand remains the same. And certain things clearly under stress oil prices down, Russia tough, FX things like that. So it’s just slow from the total volatility, it’s kind of what we’ve seen since the financial crisis, things get magnified in the short-term and that’s kind of the world that we live in, but we still think there is plenty of growth out there to be had and as you had pick through and go through the world.
Now oil price decline, I am going to talk a little bit more about doing a gas business in a little while. But we’ve been through cycles before, so we have prepared all our businesses to go through a cycle so Lourenco and his team are working on cost outs, even before the oil prices went down the oil and gas customers were really focused on improving the quality of the projects, we’ve been working on product standardization, things like that for a long time, that’s all going to get accelerated.
We’re going to able to pick through customers and projects that we want, I think if you’re a big oil company in a time like this, GE looks better as a supplier, during a time like this, so we like our competitive position and we’re going to look for opportunities as we share, people that can hire things like that, and rest of the company was fine. There is puts and takes but the rest of the company looks fine and I was fine, sometimes we’re in the middle of one of these big macro kind of distractions and things like that it’s good to think about micro a little bit. So I’ve been going to China for 25 years, China is okay. The micro of China within the aviation business, the healthcare business, the power business, China is fine. If you’re in the commercial real-estate business in China not so good, [indiscernible] commercial real-estate so China is okay.
In resources places if you’re a low cost producer like Saudi you’re still going forward, if you’re a marginal producer like Iraq, Venezuela it’s going to be tough, it’s going to be tough. I always have to remind people the country that we’re still as GE most hedged to is United States, if the United States does better, because of low gas prices that is great for us, if low gas prices are felt broadly in Europe and U.S. and China, that’s going to be good for GE. Aviation and transportation the commercial spares rate average daily order rate today is higher than any time I can ever remember. We will set record orders this year in locomotives. So when you think about the micro, it’s just a little bit of a different perspective. And then the power market we’re working on some of our biggest power deals that we’ve ever had that are, so much will be announced yet this year on power projects. So if people need electricity, they are going to still invest in power projects. So the micro is still okay, there’s going to be pockets clearly with oil prices down, there’s going to be pockets that could stall them, but I think looking at the micro sometimes is helpful as you go through things like this.
Our framework on the year was still on-track for the industrial, double-digit segment growth for the year and margin expansion, organic growth and margin expansion. My sense we said revenues in the quarter would be above the high-end of the range that still looks like where we’re tracking to and revenue for the year will be close to the high-end of the range, organic growth, that’s what still what we’re tracking to in 2014. Capital is tracking more to a 6.9 number than a 6.7 number, we’re going to do more restructuring and charges in the quarter, a couple of pennies more. Again we’ve done a tonne of restructuring this year guys without gains. So going forward we’re going to go back to gains offsetting restructuring but this year to get ready for the Synchrony spin, get our industrial cost down, we’ve been very aggressive with restructuring this year. CFOA is tracking towards the middle of that range on CFOA and revenues already went through in terms of how we’re tracking for organic growth for the year so that’s kind of the framework as we look at it this year.
Now I am going to switch to kind of a strategic update and then at the end I’ll go through segment by segment and give you how we’re looking at 2015. So, look we’re tracking to have the world’s best infrastructure company by ’16 more than 75% of our earnings are going to be an output of that and a smaller GE Capital every business in the industrial sector can leverage all of our capabilities what we call the GE store technology, services, global footprint, simple structure every business is going to be able to fully leverage that and take advantage of it. A good solid industrial EPS growth through the period and a smaller financial services and one that’s based really on competitive advantage and returns when we think about the total portfolio.
We’ve done a lot of work over the last 10 years on the portfolio I would say couple of things industrially. We’re just more diversified industrially within each business and we’ve exited all the industrial businesses that didn’t fit the infrastructure model. So we’ve actually had appliances, plastic, silicones business like that. When I stood here let’s say in 2002 more than 50% of our earnings came from one product and one market F turbines in the United States was 50% of the Company’s industrial earnings. So we have very actively within healthcare, within power, within aviation, broadened our capability and so I’d like standing here today with a set of infrastructure businesses that all utilize our core advantage and have more capability in their industries more profit pools inside their industries, and that’s what we have here today.
And on the financial service side smaller, look we exited insurance in time I think we got too big in consumer finance and we had to go backwards on that but really focus on a smaller financial service business doing things -- I think Synchrony is going to turn out to be a good trade for investors as we go through this. So focus on staying close to domain, doing deals of the right size really generating strong returns in the synergies these are the things as I look forward in the company going forward. And I think where we stand here today just less portfolio activity and very tight focus on returns, very tight focus on returns as we stand here today thinking about the portfolio and where we stand.
We did three big deals in 2014 Alstom which I’ll talk a little bit more about Innospec that we know very well complementary, financially attractive, generating synergies, high double-digit returns, high-teens returns. Synchrony that we’ve done, the first part of Synchrony we’ve asked you to model Synchrony as if we’ll have it for the full year in 2015. But we’re going to look to execute on the remainder of Synchrony as soon as we can in the year but that’s just for modeling purposes the way I think about it. Look based on current pricing and things like that this is going to be attractive, maybe as much as 700 million shares plus or minus if we’re going to be able to exchange the big gain in Synchrony. And in appliances, we think we did a fair trade I know the gain in the appliance business attract the buyer, so these were three big deals that we did this year that we think executed on the strategy in an important way.
So what is Synchrony what its capital look like, I would say by the end of 2015 ex-Synchrony we’ll be below $300 billion of E&I. We’ll continue to exit Australia, Central and European banks things like that. We’re focused on the verticals or places where we have competitive advantage. We’re going to be building regulatory capability and look to enter the CCAR process in 2017 and focus on improving returns. And then I always hate to give kind of single point guidance what I find with GE Capital and what is helpful for investors just to know how we’re thinking about it. I would think about $0.60 a share in 2015 and with Synchrony out and fewer gains and things like about $0.40 a share in ’16. We’re still thinking about ways in an investor-friendly way to continue reduce the size of GE Capital, driving a consistent dividend and improving returns in terms of the business and where it is.
In terms of Alstom we’re in the midst of the integration process. There is we’ve got more than 300 people working on this full time. There is things we know and can’t talk about those things they’re still a public company so I am limited in terms of how much I can really say. But the synergy pipeline is robust. They’ve got good people. They’ve got good factories. They’ve got good people. Its products and technology as we know it dramatically expands the global operations of the company in an important way. But as expected the technology is kind of what we knew it was where it fits in some places it’s much better than what we have particularly in areas of grid. But very complementary the people we’ve known, when we did the EGT acquisition in the late 90s these were all awesome folks we know them quite well.
While the government processes and compliance models are on-track within our deal case so that’s important. We’ve hired some ex-Bechtel people to go though the EPC process with this to learn a lot about the project so we’re going through that so far it looks like a pretty good capability. And the first half cash was lower than they expected due to tough markets but it’s going to improve in the second half and we already see a pathway on that. So that’s kind of the update we’re for the planning purposes we’re counting on a mid 2015 close let’s say mid-year. So that seems to be a pretty decent assumption vis-à-vis where we are today.
This goes back to last April when we laid out the synergy plan. We talked about $400 million of synergies in supply chain and services and that looks pretty good there is a 10 point margin delta between our services business and their service business. So that looks like a pretty good place to hunt of thousand combined sites third of which are in the same city that looks like a decent place to hunt and like I said the manufacturing processes are quite good we’re quite impressed with their manufacturing team and we like what they are doing there is a tonnage use in sourcing there is like a $1 billion more than $1 billion that either one us buy that the other company makes. Right so if you slap on a 20% margin on that you wake up in the morning with just 200 million bucks just by replacing suppliers and that looks pretty good $12 billion combined buy, technology very complementary skills. If you look at our SG&A benchmarks versus their there appears to be decent amount of synergies. So the synergies look pretty good.
And we didn’t really count on any growth synergies. But when you look at the global footprints, when you look at the aspects of where they are and some of the things we think we can do with the installed based there seems to be some reason to think that there might be some growth synergies. So we kind of laid out for you this was going to be a penny accretive in 2015 all in, in ’16 $0.06 to $0.09 accretive and then it ought to grow from there so high teens return, improved strategic position we like the way Alstom, is lining out so far a tonne of potential just a tonne of potential. But it’s going to take our best effort and we are going to have to dedicate a lot of people a lot of management time to it to be successful in this field.
And then you look at just what a combined entity looks like from an infrastructure standpoint this is a fine company this is a fine set of businesses. We ought to have a couple of years of what the Alstom synergies and the buyback and just organic a reasonable organic growth, and gains in restructuring and offsetting you are going to get a couple strong years as far as we can see, and the environment we see today a good earnings growth. You’ve got a strong set of number one franchises that are in this business all of which can leverage the GE core. It makes the Company’s core capabilities even stronger so it makes us a better technology company, it strengthen our hand in growth markets it gives us probably more than a $200 billion service backlog. We think there is opportunity for incremental returns here just getting the Alstom synergies is quite strong but it also is going to play into the work we’re doing on ROIC and gross margins and more scale on a simpler foundation. And we’re going to be in a middle of global infrastructure, energy transitions, growth markets efficiency environmental investing a whole series of things. So you are going to have a great looking industrial company going forward really built on our GE capability.
And the GE capability looks something like this we talk about this a lot different ways a lot of different times. But in some way, shape or form we have talked about the same for initiatives for the last decade or so. This is a great technology company it spreads ideas throughout the company with a global research center a legitimate global research center. It spreads ideas this is a fantastic global company. It’s got a global growth organization led by a Vice Chairman who sits in Hong Kong where we have a very strong franchise in all of these countries around the world. It’s a fantastic with services and customer with the software COE a service council some of the best service operations in the world. And it is the lean culture heading towards 12% SG&A a substantial revenue with culture development training and development and things like that. And every one of our industrial businesses now can trade fully on this capability.
At the same time everyone in the businesses adds to this capability. So in the case of aircraft engines, aircraft engines is the first mover on engineering productivity material science aviation it’s the business that delivered CMCs which power business now uses in additive manufacturing that the healthcare business now uses. Healthcare is the anchor tenant in every growth market around the world, we had 2,000 employees in healthcare in the year 1999, all of the original staffing for the power business the aviation business, the aviation business came from healthcare, most of the diagnostics, technology we use across the service installed base comes from healthcare.
Transportation business brings combustion science, engine technology, localization, again a first mover in a lot of the countries around the world. The power business really brings the services installed base and the services capability, the power business has 17 facilities that every business transportation, oil and gas uses. Oil and gas has been the first mover in Africa and lots of other hard places to get to brings a tonne in service technology, great applications and controls. Energy management, all of the power conversion, electrification controls technology comes from energy management, back into the GE store. So I think as you think about this, what makes GE work it’s this very strong core competency and a very great capability built around these core aspects in terms of who we’re and what we do, and that’s the GE store.
Now we’re going to make the GE store better, so a lot about what we’ve been executing on in the past and a lot about what we’re going to be doing in the future is built really on this page and I think I am going to amplify it in the future, in the next couple pages. Technology today isn’t just about delivering new features you also have to deliver it at a fundamentally lower cost point. We’re doing technologies and manufacturing at the same time. When we invest in R&D we’re investing as much in manufacturing as we have any time in our history absolutely key. We’re going to be a huge player in globalization in the growth markets. We’re going to have the world’s biggest franchise with a tonne of localization capability.
Three; we really do believe that every industrial company, everybody in your universe is going to have to be basic in analytics and information technology. We fundamentally believe that, and we’re putting our money where our mouth is and we’re going to continue to do that and we think we’re going to win doing that. Four; based on all of those things, I think we have under-written the healthiest service franchise in the world, your highest margin as an investor, your most valuable asset is installed base, we’ve made that even more valuable and I’ll show you the ways we’re going to do that in the future. Five; we’re going to take simplification that we have talked about on our structural costs and we’re in the midst of driving that massively into gross margins and ROIC. So we’ve got a lot of juice there and we’re going to continue to use that to be able to drive our margins. And six just a strong culture of simplification accountability are critical in terms of how we look at the future driving fast works in the other parts of the company. So this is really executing our strategy.
We’ve got great products. Our products differentially are the best that I can remember on a differential basis we’ve got great position. H turbine, our highest efficient largest gas turbine in the world, it’s a bigger part of the segment, we’ve got 37 technical wins, we’re going to really do a great job with the H Turbine. Tier-4 locomotive, when you are the only one approved you get a lot of orders and that’s how I started my career with selling LEXAN, we were the only polycarbonate company in the world, we thought we were geniuses of sales people, when you have the only it’s a good thing. Our LEAP engine, our win rate is huge right now on the LEAP we’re doing quite well in terms of how we’re positioned. This is going to be a huge launch on the LEAP engine.
At PDMAR I was at the RSNA, we had the best alignment of new products, I can remember in a long time. We were behind Siemens on the PDMAR is much better, our MR product line CT product line ultra sound, we just looked really good in the healthcare sector right now. Lots of oil and gas innovation, 20K BOP is going to get launched, it’s highly efficient, and highly effective. And power conversion is a very important horizontal capability in terms of the company and is going to see some good growth for GE going forward. So we really have a great array of products right at the right time, ready to launch.
We’re also making them in a different way, when we increased our R&D as a percentage of revenue from 4% to 5% that extra piece a lot of it went into manufacturing technology and that’s going to pay off for our investors as we do that in a number of important ways. Materials and additives you’ve heard us talk about -- you’ve heard Dave Joyce talk about CMCs, but also this strong manufacturing capability that we bring across the product line. Design and test, this is un-sexy as hell but we have a test stand in Greenville that can do full load gas turbine testing. It is awesome.
You can now take the product, we can iterate the product, we can bring customers to see the product, people will ensure the product, insurance companies will ensure the product, testing is a massive advantage and something that we have a leadership position in. I would say the choice to do vertical integration, with the way we design our products now, we basically own all the designs, we can choose how much we want to chew off on vertical integration but we’re going to get more margins. We either are going to get it through lower sourcing pricing or by doing more ourselves it is digitalization we’re taking all the things we’ve talked about in minds and machines and we’re applying that back into our own factories.
So if you look at the LEAP, the LEAP has got a lower starting point and a faster learning curve than the GEnx. It’s been designed more efficiency than the GEnx and it’s going to have a lower fundamental cost. And as you guys know as Dave will tell you with the LEAP one or two points either way is worth hundreds of millions of dollars over the life end of the product. And the H Turbine is going to start with a lower initial cost and with a faster learning curve more productivity than any of the products we’ve ever introduced. So, we really have aligned and technology very well in this process.
We’re going to be -- GE plus Alstom is $60 billion in growth markets, which is profoundly well positioned and just about every country that counts around the world it’s going to give us a scale, it’s going to give us competitive advantage, it’s going to improve our scope. But when you look at a place like China we’ll have probably close to 30 factories real critical mass across the entire company. India, that’s a place where Alstom was superior to GE has very strong leadership team, more factories and better positioned in India. Middle East, North Africa and Turkey, I’ve talked about that Alstom really adds to the capability and the mass of the company going forward. So we now as a company are not only bigger than our competition but can really utilize and play any game strategically on a global basis, big competitive advantage.
We also have the software that goes with it. I think in the world we live in today you just can’t miss anything. So you’re going to have to be present and get the incremental businesses that exist around the world and you’ve got to do that on a cost effective and efficient way at the same time. So on localization we are around the big deals as they take place. China is going to be a very active market next year in the aviation sector, lots of campaigns that we’re going to have to be focused on most of them they are robotic campaigns.
Like I said emergency power, you’re going to see deals at this year there are in the emergency power space people that need electricity you’ve got to be well positioned no two of these deals are the same. But when you look at a deal like Algeria these are very important for the company strategically. We’ll do about 1,000 locomotives around the world between ’15 and ’18. We’re well positioned in a lot of the places globally there. We can compete any place in the world from a value of healthcare standpoint. So we can go against Mindray or others at high margins in the markets around the world.
And even with oil where it is, there is going to be some big projects in Africa next year on subsea and oil and gas that GE is going to participate in and look at and work hard on. So localization helps drive growth but by being local needs markets we also have more presence that can improve our productivity and cost at the same time. And one of the things John Rice has done as we’ve gone globally is really invested in these multi modality sites. So as we invest globally no site now is one GE business its multiple GE businesses. I show you here just Haiphong in Pune in India but that’s about $500 million of output, 20 savings per hour. So when you look at Mexico and Poland from an engineering standpoint they have an operating cost per hour 20% or 30% below the rest of the world. In shared services we’re doing in 5% an hour on a global basis. So globalization is giving us both a cost base and a revenue base that again I think makes us very competitive in the world we live in today.
This comes from minds and machines we basically discussed the investments we're making in analytics about $300 million to $400 million a year and this is going to add to a higher service growth more dollars per installed base and higher service margins better product feedback. It also connects us more closely to our customers. And this is still ongoing. This is still we’re still making a tonne of progress along these lines. And we also talked about our own investment in information technology that helps us get our 1% and helps us be more efficient with our installed base and manufacturing. And so these are things that we’re going to talk about at every meeting, give you updates on and let you know we’re doing and what our capability is.
One of the important horizontal capabilities we’re investing in around the company is controls. Controls is a critical horizontal capability for the industrial Internet. We now can take controls and back fit them in to B and E class turbines. The old installed base. When you do that you open up their ability to accept the industrial Internet or accept software and analytics on top of that. We think this is going to give us a chance to drive better upgrades around the install base. Life optimizing controls we’re doing around all the wind turbines. This allows us to improve their up time this gives us ways to substantially grow the service franchise for our wind business by double-digits even in a sluggish or tougher market, so controls new technology, new ways to think about the future.
In the case of locomotives, look our rail customers are going to allow us to be their operating ERP this shows a real live example of a locomotive customer and we have eight different software offerings that we’re selling to this customer. The potential for each one of the locomotive customers is about $100 million of incremental revenue each year dramatically increasing the dollars per installed base. The ones that don’t have numbers associated with them we’re doing today and the one, two, three are new offerings, new bids that we’re driving. So this is real time accelerating growth in our service business.
And in the case of information technology we’re aggressively driving ERP reduction, application reduction, more knowledge inside the company and I’ll just show you two businesses here our water business and our life science business as we’ve been able to collapse the structure of these businesses they were largely built through acquisitions. We’ve grown our operating profits substantially over that time period both of these franchises have return on capital of 15% or more. And so we’re able to use the simplification of the structure and the information technology to drive better margins lower SG&A, better return on all these businesses going forward. So better products, better global footprint the intersection of fiscal and digital and that investment of fiscal and digital leads us to a really underwriting and incredibly important and valuable piece of turf for our investors which our installed based. We see steady growth we’re going to have another good year in ’14 in services of organic growth, margin and backlog. We expect another strong year in ’15 we’re growing our dollars per installed base by 3% which is very healthy that’s a good level for us. Our margins were up substantially and services this year, our incremental software sales are strong, our productivity orders will exceed $1.5 billion.
And we’re now looking back at this aged fleet where our penetration is lower whether it’s jet engines or locomotives or gas turbines and look our chops about where that can go in the future. Alstom adds 35% to our installed based. And there is a 10 point service differential in terms of margins there so we see some good opportunities in with the acquisition GE brings the tonne in technology we’ve bring a lot in terms of global footprint and Alstom actually has quite a good service business as well particularly around multi-vendor service and aged fleet. So we think there is a tonne of complementary synergies in terms of where we stand here. Number four is this big focus on services profit long-term profit, huge backlog Alstom is right in the sweet spot here. And this is a place where our performance is actually getting better each day and we like where we are. I’d probably just take you through one business as an example an important business power gen services just allow you to see where she use to have, how big your installed base grew was the only determinant of where do you made more money in services year after year. You now have five or six engines that are growing simultaneously in terms of the power business. We’ve got new products and our close rate whether it’s in aircraft engines, or locomotives, or healthcare are close rate of our new technology with CSAs is always hugs so you already start close to 100% on CSA close rate.
Then you add to that upgrade, you hear us talking about advance gas pass which will be about 80 and they’ll be even more next year. But on top of that we also do upgrades to a lot of our other old fleets in terms of where we go with the tonne of margin dollars associated with that. We have $300 million in just software sales and the business is twice where it was in 2014. We are going after the B and E class of fleets so we’re going after the old age fleet with new controls and analytics. We’ve got a great global footprint so our close rate globally is as high our close rate is high in Australia, China places like that than it is in the United States. And we’re generating $340 million in productivity every year. So you marched through their and we are just changing the game around our service businesses. And I could tell the same story in Aviation or Healthcare other businesses so really critical products global, fiscal and digital that leads to better service and service outcome and then a real focus on just intensifying kind a wing to wing process improvement. We’ve done a good job on SG&A getting down to 12% of SG&A I view that as the right place to start because it’s not only cost that we could take out but also made running to place easier so that’s key.
We’ve always worked on the buckets but we’re just doing this with more focus and intensity so setting real gross margin targets contribution margin less R&D and as you do SG&A and as you do gross margins more or less 80% of our ROIC are returns improvement are driven by margin growth. Then we add to that a focus on better capital intensity a better capital usage down there free cash flow conversion. So basically we are on a pathway to get to 12% by 2016 in terms of SG&A we started in ’13 at 27% save in gross margins we want to get 50 basis points annually on gross margins. And we told you last year we wanted to get to 17% ROIC and we are on a path to do that. So the new metric today let’s say is we’re on gross margins and improvement we want to see there.
To do that you have got to focus on what we call the assets, you have got to get a focus on the critical projects the critical areas, they are going to really move the needle and make those a horizontal capability inside the company. So us there is really eight of them, it’s product cost which goes without saying. When you are in a high-tech infrastructure business product cost that’s just about everything we do. Our operating cost per hour so that’s a blended average of how we engineer, where we make things and we put everything on a common basis. Value gap which is really comparison of how you sell versus how you buy, so critical in terms of to see if you are recovering inflation, engineering efficiency in big businesses like aviation this is really key, and there is ways that we can measure engineering output service productivity is something we share with you all the time. Reliability in a business like transportation, any businesses that have big CSA portfolios reliability is a critical determinant of how you ultimately drive margin into your installed base. P&E efficiency goes without saying and working capital turns is a common win.
And so, convert on metrics horizontal process Dan Heintzelman and Jeff Bornstein and corporate audit staff focused on that compensation link to outcome metrics and making sure that the all the projects give us room for mix. Because that is the hardest thing to predict, and I would say that’s the place where we lift in the past and so we just have to set the bar higher they cannot dump to accommodate different mix formulas inside the company. And then I will show in the end how does it work in a real time example again speak on David, but he is doing a good job, you all think that I think. So I sure do. So aviation has 25% gross margins, 7% SG&A, 18% returns, 90% cash conversion. So if you look at business like aviation the things that standout are gross margins, not SG&A. And he is been in a heavy CapEx cycle launching all of these engines. We have just have to drive more efficiency in the CapEx cycle.
So in the aviation business 1 point of gross margins is 100 basis points in ROIC, 10% reduction P&E is 50 basis points on ROIC. David’s big programs are around product cost and learning curve, huge in that business you heard him talk about down in the past. Our P&E efficiency, how can we get cheaper tooling on the same out of the CapEx that we are installing in the business, engineering efficiency and clearly services productivity is a big driver of gross margins as well. And then that’s how his team is compensating, and that leads back to the results. So we have got kind of a virtuous cycle in terms of the new comp plan, and how we think about operational simplification. Now, we have been working on these things for a long time. I think this is just a way for us to normalize it, be more transparent about it, but these are things that are important for the company. So we have lot of work going on inside the company on product cost. When it comes to what product managers do, what engineering teams and manufacturing teams have to do. This is a turbine machinery example in our oil and gas business where we take 25% of this product cost out.
Our strategic sourcing, look for us, for Steve and for David, precision casting is the number one sourcing component. And if you are in the aviation or the power generation business we have got to find ways to get that cost down. And so we have got real programs in terms of how to focus there. Aviation learning curve this is about both supply chain sourcing, how we make things. Our value gap is about pricing and the case of aviation getting more price per unit, products like Tier 4 where we have significant performance advantages, being able to get the pricing right the first time. Top tier is really all about the original NPI it’s all about how to get better cost out. No team in the company does it better than our ultrasound team. And then we have a lot of service examples on productivity probably the most important thing we are doing right now is in CSAs and analytics and you saw examples of that at minds and machine. So we have got tremendous programmatic folks on gross margins in ROIC kind of embedded into how we think about ROIC, we have talked about getting the 17% by end of 2016, by 2016 gross margins we have talked about 50 basis points improvement on an annual basis.
Our culture, we have talked about simplification for the last couple of years. I think this is really resonating throughout the company when I talk about what we have done over the last couple of years here. Our lean management do fewer things but doing better, fewer layers, less structure, less process, fewer P&Ls, lower cost. I stood up for a long time in terms of GE asked it will be more replaced now I am asking them to do less, but do it better. Lean management everything on the clock so we have done lean for 20 years in GE, we have added to that some process from Silicon Valley call the Lean start-up we call it FastWorks. The H turbine has been launched in two and half years. The precursor to the H took five years. So real cycle time coming out in a real way. Commercial intensity putting all the enabling functions so they have to focus on the market getting everybody engaged with what are the public customer metrics that we are looking inside in the company and then the last element is really getting GE up with digital entitlement. The fact is we can be leaner and faster if we just have the right IT tools as you think about the going forward.
So the phase one of that was a lower cost company so getting down from 18% SG&A as a percentage of revenue down 12% we’re well on our way and faster smarter company this is FastWorks this is gross margins and GE [indiscernible]. Customer in terms of our success sailing to go fast, learn and prove and empower and inspire our people and deliver results in uncertain world those are good words for all of you in this room because the world we live that’s where we live in today. So those are the things that are part of strategic execution inside the company and then we’ve kind of solidify that with compensation. So the team is really on a very directed financially clear plan where each business has financial goals that are kind of likely have done a long-term incentive plan for years so these are four financial goals that really set the pool, the company kind of goal set the pool then the businesses have to deliver on their four goals and then strategy as part of that in terms of deciding how much everybody has paid. And from myself and the named executives we now are all on some form of performance shares. So we’re all kind of put our money totally aligned with investors. And then again going back to the aviation example 50% of their IC is very linear financial, 50% is strategic they get the lead bout on time, they hit the right cost on the lead things like that and then that’s filtered with the total company performance. So accountability alignment culture all kind of part of the process of where the company is and the kinds of things we’re doing we’re in particularly good in the times we’re in today.
And what does that mean overall so I think in ’15 like I said in ’14 we’ll see organic growth at the high-end of the range the 4 to 7 range, ’15 we’re talking about 2 to 5, I’ll go through oil and gas in a second but we’re really planning the company for a sluggish oil and gas sector in 2015 15.7% margin in 2013 growth in ’14, growth in ’15, growth in ’16 we have good momentum around margins and on-track to hit our 17% ROIC goal by 2016. So organic growth we’ve got a lot of good programs underway, margins really underwriting any potential challenges and mix with better gross margin our performance in ROIC a real focus on margin enhancements and capital efficiency going forward on returns. So in the end our initiatives are all tied to better financial performance for the company and for the company going forward.
So that’s kind of the strategic overview of the company now kind of talking about 2015. So we’re going to kind of change the way communicate about the company public we know how endearing the pluses and pluses have become to everybody. But we thought at least at the top of the house we’re making it clear and now help people navigate through. So we’re going to basically do four top-line metrics one is industrial EPS and the industrial EPS is a function of segments, corporate all the way down to an industrial EPS and here we’re seeing industrial EPS is in the range of $1.10 to $1.20. Industrial EPS will be up double-digits. Segment organic growth of 2% to 5%, margins expansion as part of that corporate will be somewhere between $2.3 billion and $2.5 billion. And we’re basically saying because there is so meaningful Alstom and appliances kind of close on July 1st so basically we’re kind of modeling the years if M&A kind of all happens more or less at the same time I think that’s probably as smart as we are and the best way to kind of build the models.
GE Capital we’re talking about $0.60 in 2015 smaller if we get a chance to make it smaller in a investor-friendly way but we think this is a good base plan for people to think about. This basically assumes Synchrony happens on January 1, 2016. Again just for planning purposes this is the right way to think about it if we have a chance to do it sooner, that’s what we’ll do. A number of free cash flow kind of plus disposition so kind of total cash generated so this is CFOA minus P&E plus divestitures. So we’re talking about CFOA of $14 billion to $16 billion P&E between $4 billion and $4.5 billion and dispositions of $2 billion to $4 billion of cash received. So in other words a lot of this has already been announced, so it’s just getting cash in the door for the that and then cash returned to investors a wide range here 10 billion all the way to 30 billion and that’s just includes dividend and the impact of buyback in Synchrony as we go through that. So these are the way to think about the company, the guide post of the company and now I am going to take you kind of segment by segment in terms of how to think about where we are.
So we’re going to leave pluses just for the segments and I am going to go through each segment individually. So I am just going to -- this is really summary page but I just felt like spending a little bit time on how to think about the high-end and the low-end of the range. So I think the high end says that U.S is better that healthcare in U.S. continues to improve third quarter was a little bit better fourth quarter, we think is going to be okay the business is taking a ton of cost out. So any incremental volume is pretty lucrative from a financial standpoint. Aviation and transportation the history has been that as our customers earn more money we earn money. So if revenue passed your miles in spares and things like that stay where they are today there is room for upside in some of these businesses. Decent distributed power and wind business these are very policy driven businesses so if you think about distributed power in countries that need electricity, when you think about wind these tend to be more on the policy side but see how that falls. Better cost execution our sourcing should be better as we go into 2015 given the price for that’s a positive benefit of the price of oil and Alstom upside again we have a model but these fields all happen in a different way once you close them.
And then the low-end of the range and say what if instead of 3% plus global GDP growth at the higher math and everybody else forecast what if it is actually lower than that because of other things that are happening in the world we don’t see that today but we can accommodate some of that. We can accommodate oil and gas being worse and still be in the range so we can accommodate more pressure there and still be in that earnings range. We have a union contract year in 2015 so that always adds a little bit of variability I always think about that in a context of what could happen. Our public policy I have no idea if we are going to get tax reform or any of that stuff so we don’t know where that goes, and what if the dollar goes below $1.20 we’ve got to stress the plan to see what happens if really currency breaks out. But the point I make for us we’ve given you a pretty, we’ve given in your range that can accommodates things getting worse and still be within that range and that’s probably the most important thing to think about at a moment like this and if things are better that’s great for everybody and that’s how to think about it.
So power and water well I am going to show the businesses that have M&A I am going to show them with and without M&A. So if Alstom closes July 1st Steve and his team will have double-digit revenue and double-digit profit growth. If it doesn’t close just a core business has single-digit revenue and single-digit profit growth in power and water. We’re not really assuming market growth per se this is really a function of having really great products. So we have really good products versus our competition we’ve got very good service execution on-track we have taken a billion dollars of structural cost out of this business. So we’ve got a lean cost structure and the team is been executing reasonably well and what we trying to do is hedging here just get blue bird one way or the other right so in the distributor power side this is really probably five or 10 deals we’re working on in any given time that are just about emergency power. And we try not to lean too heavily into those as being things to count on and then you get six months of Alstom in the Steve has responsibility for the power side. So that’s kind of the base plan so that’s the power and water.
Aviation we basically talk about revenue up single-digits and kind of profit growth ahead of that slightly and talk about business that’s really done extremely well over the last couple of years extremely well position in the marketplace winning in the OEM side. A very strong service franchise the negative mix is kind in the run rate so you kind of think of launching these engines the first year stinks, but you already have that. So the GEnx cost comes down then you wanted to sleep a couple years from now. But basically the badness you are going to feel from a product mix is already there and investing to launch these new products. So still investing to launch new products and military is going to be continue to be tough. But we don’t see any good news vis-à-vis the military business so that’s going to be a drag on aviation as it goes forward.
Oil and gas again it is a flurry that is going around this industry right now clearly. What I thought I do is just decompose the revenue and the cost side so we basically have five segments so the top-line is we’re counting on revenue being down slightly and we’re going to try to hold margins that’s kind of the base plan so revenue is down. But we’re taken a tonne of cost actions so that’s kind of a we think a reasonable plan. So revenue of five segments I’d start with drilling in surface that’s the most volatile piece of the mix that’s the first that gets hit. We’re counting on that thing down more than 10% in revenue. So we’ve taken a fairly start of you on the drilling and surface business.
And then you go to subsea, subsea is primarily oil, tough projects. Those projects are likely going to continue. In other words, people don’t stop projects that are like this. So this is more than 70% backlog. We think orders are going to get hit in this business. But we see revenue playing through in '15 in all likelihood.
And then turbomachinery, really the LNG mix as a percentage of the global fuel is going to continue to grow. And as LNG fuel as a percentage of mix continues to grow, the completion of LNG projects goes forward. And so we see decent backlog in the turbomachinery business. We see decent orders in the turbomachinery business and we kind of model that to be okay next year. The measurement and controls business, you have other people in your space like Honeywell and Emerson that are in that business. Some of that’s MRO; a lot of it goes in the industries other than just oil and gas. So we kind of view that as being okay next year. And then the downstream is actually going to be better. So downstream projects are actually favored in the world we’re in today.
So we kind of see 60% of the portfolio revenue being okay. We see 15% where the revenue will continue but orders are going to be very tough to come by and we see 25% where revenue is going to be hard hit as you look at where you go. So it’s a diversified business. That’s kind of how we do our planning for next year. I know on the cost side we’ve been aggressive on both direct and base costs in the business, so we’re well positioned for that.
Really one of the things I don’t I have written about a lot is the fact that even if you go back to the summer or before, there has been a lot of project inflation. A lot of our customers weren’t that happy already with the projects and how they’re being executed. So everybody in the industry was going through a cleanup process. And so we’re already going through, even before Thanksgiving or OPEC or whatever you want to [indiscernible] we were probably doing a ton of restructuring getting our costs down.
Lorenzo already runs the business and I would say in a good way as if oil prices were $60 or $70 a barrel. We look at projects -- when you talk to our customers even before this, that’s where they were. So we just want to continue that. And it was just ready for the industry -- in times like this, you've got to worry about pricing pressure, you've got to worry about a lot of stuff. So I think we’ve hedged this the right way. We’ve allowed room in the range in case things get worse. But we’ve been through these cycles before, SAARs or power bubble or unfortunately I have been doing this long enough, I could almost sing a song about all the crisis I have seen. So I just put them all in a -- I just think we’re just ready for this. And people ask me sometimes about I don’t think this is the right time to do M&A. I like this space, let's be clear. I think over the long term I like this space just liked I aviation when it was tough, just like I like all of our business, we like this space. We think this is a good GE business. But you don’t have to buy things now. Really I would say commercially if you’re in this kind of turbulence, GE looks really good on almost every project we would ever work on versus anybody else. And so we just are going to position ourselves, we’re going to run the place good for investors, well for investors and we like how this whole thing, we like this business. We like more the more than $120 a barrel, don't get me wrong. We like this business over the long term.
Healthcare, we’re prepared for more sluggishness. Again, I’d say Europe is still reasonably tough. The U.S. is a little bit better than where we’ve been. Japan has been extremely tough this year. Japan has been a very tough market in 2014. We still see good growth in life sciences, that’s more driven by drug discovery. We’ve taken a ton of cost out of this place, so we’re well leveraged, better products. When I talked about in the past, I think a better IT business. We basically missed the EMR wave in healthcare, but we’re pretty well positioned for the next wave in healthcare in terms of applications that go with EMR. So we’re pretty well positioned there. Still some uncertainty about what the Affordable Care Act is going to mean, but I would say we see people more willing to invest now than they were probably a year or two ago in terms of hospital CEOs. And so you’re just going to have to be productive. So in healthcare, we’re counting on revenue growth, margin growth and slight profit growth in 2015. And if markets get better, we’ll do better.
I’ll remind you, in transportation as part of the Alstom deal, we’re selling our signaling business to Alstom. So that’s part of the transaction, that’s where you see two comments here. So this year a boomer in orders, but more sluggish on revenue and margins mainly because of the wheels business, Komatsu into the mining space, so that’s been a very tough tuck-in. We're not accounting on the mining business getting any better. It’s been a sluggish year and we’re kind of counting on a slight year. But we’ve got an incredible backlog now of locomotives. So this is going to have double-digit revenue growth, big backlog on orders. The signaling business is pretty profitable, so that has an impact on margin rates. So net-net, we have growing margins and growing revenue double digits. When you back out the signaling piece, you've got operating profit growing positively and very strong backlog.
So again, very well positioned technically. We’ve got the only Tier 4 locomotive, well positioned strategically in terms of where we are around the world, a good service franchise, a growing service franchise. Mining, I think we have in the run rate now that’s continued to be soft. But what I worry about in a time like this and a business like this is we’ve got to take a brand new product, we’ve got to produce a bunch of them, we’ve got to take it down the learning curve. So this is not a market challenge, this is more of an execution challenge that I worry about in this business when I think about 2015.
Energy management is really three business and we’re going to get -- again, Alstom has a big participation here. So without business development, you have single-digit revenue growth and double-digit operating profit growth. With Alstom you’re going to have strong revenue growth and strong op profit growth. We’ve done a bunch of restructuring in this business and we should have a decent year in energy management. So I’d break it down into three pieces.
Power conversion is in the central technology for the company. Electrification isn’t a central technology, but we’ve had to put a ton of money into fixing this franchise. So we have really had to reinvest into this space quite honestly more than we thought we’re going to have to. But we are really well poised to see a couple of good years of earnings growth in the power conversion business. It reminds me a little bit of the wind business back a decade ago. The wind business for the first couple of years we owned it, we had to reinvest back in the product line. We had to clean up the install base. It was terrible for probably three years and then it just has generated a boatload of cash since then. I look at power conversion kind of the same way.
Digital energy is all about Alstom. Digital energy is all about -- they’re number three, we’re number six, together we’re a stronger number three. You’ve got ADB and Siemens number one and number two. ADB in particular earns mid-teens margins. Together we’re going to earn maybe 6% margins. There is a huge amount of margin runway when you think about those businesses and where you can go.
And then industrial solutions, we’ve done a lot of restructuring. We’re going to get good earnings growth. We’ll probably -- I’d say in a year or two we’ll be at or above 10% operating profit rate in the industrial systems business and I think this is a business that’s always got optionality. It’s a better fit with Alstom, but it’s a business that we always think about from an investor friendly standpoint in terms of where we go. Our job in the short term is to make it better, to make it much better.
Appliances goes -- so really from a lighting standpoint, it’s just an LED story. We’ll cross $1 billion on LEDs. This is really more of an infrastructure service business today. It’s a vastly different business. And then we’ve got to clean up one way shape or form we’ve just got to clean up the old installed base around lighting, but that’s kind of where it is. Appliances, I think we’ll get a gain that’s let’s say $0.06, $0.07 share of a gain that we’re going to apply back to restructuring and other stuff around the Company. So that’s really appliances and lighting.
Corporate which has been kind of just the lifeline at corporate, I think it’s just going to be easier and simpler to understand. So we’re going to continue to take costs, just pure run rate costs out of corporate. We expect gains to offset restructuring. So this year we did just $0.10 plus of naked restructuring. So that’s been a hurt to the Company. That just goes away. So gains are going to offset restructuring next year. Variability based on when you do it, the places where we’re reinvesting are going to be places like the software COE is going to be the biggest place that we reinvest at corporate. A ton going on in pension, we try to spell it out for you here in terms of what happens both in terms of interest rates and mortality tables and things like that. I would encourage you if you really trace, but you'd have to talk to Jeff during the cocktail hours. My PhD was in something other than mortality tables. But -- and then I think just simpler -- I just think as we're going through the big restructuring program, this has been a hard thing to track through. I think next year we’re really saying 2.3 billion to 2.5 billion, very transparent, part of the industrial EPS and kind of how we think about the Company going forward.
Capital allocation, again we’ve talked about capital allocation in terms of '15 and '16. Again, given just the Synchrony dynamic I think makes this a better way to look at it. So a real focus on free cash flow. CFOA less P&E driving good improvement inside the businesses in terms of where we go on CFOA. Synchrony is going to allow for a great tax capital efficient transaction for investors. Capital dividend, we were assuming if that continues. And we’re saying in addition to the things that have already been announced, so like appliances and things like that, always around the edges there is at least $2 billion for divestures every year that we just view as just optionally, clean-up, things like that and we would expect to have that in 2015 as well. And then from an allocation standpoint, $40 billion return to investors in terms of the Synchrony split and dividends. Alstom is really the priority here guys. This is our M&A plan I would say in the '15 and '16 other than things around the edges, we want to do a good job on Alstom. And then we still invest a lot organically in terms of the Company and the business and where it's going.
So that’s the financial plan. So we’re seeing $1.10 or $1.20 and that’s for EPS, that’s up double digits versus this year. $0.60 on capital, could be smaller if we get an opportunity to do so in an industrial friendly way. And then giving you a target for total cash generated $12 billion to $15 billion free cash flow and cash given back to investors of $10 billion to $30 billion depending on Synchrony and where we go.
So again, just to recap on the Company. We have an awesome infrastructure Company that is focused on returns. It is competitively well positioned. It is going to be earning a substantial amount and increasing it over the years. And then GE Capital that’s really based on returns and competitive advantage are going to dictate the size of GE Capital overtime. So I think a very strong portfolio in the world we live in today. And then just continuing to improve I would say the horizontal capability inside the Company and that is products, but not just product innovation, but better manufacturing cost around the products. It is a fantastic global and growth market footprint. It is this merger of physical and digital, really owning the analytical space and doing a better job of taking costs out of our Company. It is having a very strong service franchise, which we think in slow growth and volatile times is a good underpinning for the Company and we’ve great strides to make the service business even better. Intense focus on gross [indiscernible] capital and momentum already in place to achieve that, and a focus on accountability and simplification.
And then not to go crazy on forward guidance really, but there is so much going on in the portfolio, I just want to give you how I would think about the Company going forward into '16. So you are going to lose Synchrony earnings, capital is going to be let’s say $0.40 a share plus or minus, that’s where it's going to be. When you take an industrial business, you basically -- you've got restructuring, people games, that adds, you've got to buy back, that adds, you've got Alstom, that adds, and then you've got -- let’s say you just target 5% to 10% organic growth, you’ve got industrial earnings that more than offset capital going down. So we’re growing EPS this year, we’re going to grow EPS next year, we’re going to grow EPS in '16 and we’re going to do it while massively changing the portfolio in the world where we see today and kind of underwriting some negative risk and that’s how we think about the Company in '15 and '16 going forward.
So last, I'd just say it’s a different Company, we've got to think about it in a different context, I’ve got to think about it in a different context. I would say massively portfolio into now, it's those days of big changes. I'm not saying we won't ever change anything, shift to getting the most of out of the portfolio we have, improving returns. Improving returns industrially, we think we can get to 17% and improving returns in GE Capital. We’ve got to get GE Capital above 10%. And so this is a team that’s going to get measured, managed, compensated based on generating good returns out of the portfolio we have, point number one.
Point number two, if you look at the blended talent at the top, there is nobody in headquarters that hasn’t come recently from a business. We just basically have more intense operating focus at every point in the place and I think that’s a good thing. I am not sure I would ever again have people in the corporate top of the house that hasn’t been in the business in a substantial way. I just think you get a different sensibility when you do that and it's particularly important since I’ve been in the job for a while that you get new agitation that comes into that.
I’d say point number three, I read all the notes you guys write about all of our competitors. I read almost everywhere, I don’t read every word, but I read almost every word. But any time you stop investing, you die in this business. But I think we had the fall or I had to fall sometimes of investing in too many things. I think what has to happen now is you've got to be investing in more -- if you launch a new product, you've got to get the cost down. Analytics are going to improve the productivity and margins of all of our service portfolio. Globally when we go to a country, we go not just to sell, we go there to drive productivity at the same time. So I really see a dramatic change in the way we invest about share and margins. But anytime you stop investing, if you decide to sit out the next round of narrow bodies, you lose for 30 years. If you decide to sit out the next round of large block gas turbines, you lose for 30 years. So investment is part of what we do in these companies, but the investment has to be narrower and deeper and I think that’s important. Modernizing the capability, you want to us to be better at analytics and IT. I'm just telling you that flat out, that’s got to be a core competency and where we go. And modernizing the culture, leaner, faster, risk based, competitive, it’s just a different place. It’s a better place, it’s a different place, it’s important for us to be positioned where we need to get to in the future.
So with that, let me stop there and take questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Q - Unidentified Analyst
There is a lot of skepticism around oil and gas. For one thing, it’s a bit of a falling knife still. We haven’t hit the bottom yet. But what is the comfort level that you have that the backlog that you are talking about, that you think is stable, doesn’t have to get re-priced? Because there are some of the -- your customers out there have already come out publicly and said we want some pain share here and we may ask our suppliers to share some of the pain.
Jeffrey Immelt
So I think, Scott, in the base case you see today, some of that’s already in it. So in other words, we are not just taking a static backlog and rolling it through. We are assuming those are going to -- you saw on my chart room for price pressure. So we have kind of thought somewhat about that. But I would say one of the mitigants to that is we were already working that way, these projects that had been going on where 50% to 100% inflation versus the way that they were priced before. So we are already working in that way. And I think in our base case, we have mitigated, we've kind of counted on some of that to take place.
Unidentified Analyst
And as a follow-up, the comment on Alstom service margins being 10 points below yours, help us understand how easy it is to get those margins up. And what happens to the overall enterprise? Do your margins go up because of the scale and the increased scale that get’s put through your service centers? Does the overall complex margins go up? And help us understand that the level of difficulty…
Jeffrey Immelt
So what I would say, Scott, I would think about this in two stages. So I think in many ways, whatever commercial agreements that they had will be honored out of the box. But you basically have specific and direct overlap of capabilities. So when you look at SG&A, it’s almost one for one overlap. So that’s let’s say the first tranche of margins. The second tranche is the -- there is just no analytics, remote monitoring, things like that that take place in a lot of the projects that they have. And then I would think about Steve’s business in aggregate that the blended average, initially the margin goes down, because we are not going to be able to offset the entirety of that mix, but overtime we build back up so that the GE margins you see today over the next couple of years are going to be the blended margin. And that’s built into the return case that we see overtime.
Unidentified Analyst
One additional question around oil pricing is, a lot of your gas turbine growth and Alstom's growth in recent years has come from oil-rich nations. What gives you the confidence that in bulk you are not going to face pressure on the gas turbine front as these nations find their own difficulty if these oil prices are sustained?
Jeffrey Immelt
Again, we underwrite -- the case you have seen in the power and water segment is kind of slack market. So we are not really counting on much growth. A lot of the incremental backlog now is kind of U.S. -- U.S. is kicking in more, Mexico kicking in more, China looks pretty good, things like that. And then you basically underwrite it country-by-country. So you underwrite it -- what do you think about Saudi, I'm still pretty -- if Saudi means electricity, they are going to buy electricity. I wouldn’t say when we first sat down to do the operating plan for 2015 in power and water, we had another big slug of turbines for Iraq, those are gone. So we basically go -- Nigeria, we are not counting on much in Nigeria, we are not counting on much for Iraq. We will complete Algerian order. We still think countries like Saudi are going to be okay as you go through that. You are going to see -- again between now and the end of the year, you are going to see big, maybe one big order or maybe more of it take place in the regions like the ones you are worried about. So there is still a big hunt for emergency power and electricity.
Look, electricity matters to these places. It’s the last thing to be de-invested. So I would say what we have done is underwritten our case country-by-country. Some of the teams that we would have had six months ago are gone and some have stayed. Saudi have stayed.
Unidentified Analyst
And in terms of the holding margins in oil and gas and you talk about having gotten ahead of the cost reductions now, maybe give us a little more color for what you’ve actually been doing there that should give us confidence that -- we're already in December, has this already been a part of the restructuring you have been doing? Where are you and how should we feel comfortable that you’re going to be able to match that…?
Jeffrey Immelt
Go back in time. So what was the thing most people would be talking about in the oil and gas industry let’s say a year ago? We’re sitting on six or nine months of late backlog. The supply chain -- if you compare the oil and gas not just GE, but the whole industry, if you compare the oil and gas supply chain to the aviation supply chain, it’s not even close - the reliability of the suppliers, the productivity of the suppliers, the reliability of the projects, the delivery of the projects. So I would say Steve we’ve been working like mad just to clean up our own factories, suppliers, getting things on time.
So we’ve done more than $4 billion of restructuring over the last three or four years. Some of that’s been in oil and gas. And I would say we’re going to have very aggressive base cost programs. But we also have very aggressive variable cost programs that go along with that. So it’s not just a base cost hit, this is a supply chain capability as well.
So I think that’s the way I would think about it. This was not a superefficient industry before. There is a ton of room just to get the oil and gas business up to the standards of the rest of the GE internal family.
With that, guys, I am just going to reiterate, there is things we still don’t know about oil and gas and we’ve tried to create a range that underwrites more things we don’t know. We do the best we can from where we sit here today, but we try to keep a big enough range that the downside can allow for oil and gas to get worse.
Unidentified Analyst
There is a lot of moving parts in corporate with the gains and restructuring. Can you maybe just clarify, is Alstom restructuring going to be taken in the second half of '15? Just I guess the puts and takes around gains and restructuring so far…?
Jeffrey Immelt
Steve, I'll do the best I can and then maybe you can hit Jeff. I would say the gains will be in excess of 1 billion. Then those will be eaten up somewhat by Alstom restructuring, things associated with that, and then just pure restructuring. So we’ll still do pure restructuring as part of that as well. But we view kind of the closing cost of the Alstom restructuring will be in corporate.
Unidentified Analyst
And then I thought you said for the '16 slide, you said somewhat organic growth of 5% to 10%. Was that revenue growth or was that profit?
Jeffrey Immelt
We didn’t give a guidance on '16 revenue. Our long-term target is 5%. But I am just trying to get people to think through what just happens without really thinking of restructuring gains, buyback, Alstom. Those three things are kind of -- we don’t have to go out and do anything new, those happen. And then you’re going to get organic growth that happens alongside that when you think about '16. But it's too soon to…
Unidentified Analyst
What is your oil price assumption for at least this year and…
Jeffrey Immelt
We do 60 to 65, that’s kind of where we are. But again like I said, I don’t think we know, but that’s how we did our plans in that range.
Unidentified Analyst
And then one, just last one, your free cash flow excluding dispositions is I think 10 to 11.5 for next year.
Jeffrey Immelt
I think it was 14 to 16 last quarter, so you’re right.
Unidentified Analyst
So you’re paying out a $9 billion dividend. I assume some of that cash is overseas. I mean are you -- how are you managing this from a liquidity perspective? Are you bringing back cash and paying the tax in an efficient way or…?
Jeffrey Immelt
You’re going to get the chance to do Alstom out of foreign cash. We’ve got lots of optionality about how we think about -- we leave the year with $16 billion or more of cash. So you’ve got a ton of optionality around cash right now. Really the big deal is Alstom for next year.
Unidentified Analyst
Interested in hearing some more thoughts on what you consider to be the optimal mix for GE, because we heard a couple messages today, a big plus sign in front of that 75% and lots of arrows down on making GE Capital smaller. And Slide 9, it was pretty clear you’re going to seek every opportunity to make GE Capital smaller. So what are the -- if you get it investor friendly way, but what are the parameters on the GE Capital fit today, is it risk? Is it the cash flow opportunities? You’ve managed the SIFI requirements well, but still you want to get smaller. So just, what is the optimal mix and what are the parameters?
Jeffrey Immelt
So again, Steve, what I would say is the output on split is more the output than the input. So when I think about the strategy of the Company, it’s invest in really great businesses that leverage our core capability, improve the returns, things like that. But when I look at GE Capital, to me it’s about competitive advantage and returns. And which businesses do we have the most competitive advantage in and can we generate an attractive return for our investors given the requirement and getting to see CCAR in '17 and things like that.
And then the third thing is we have to make it under our control. I think one of the good things we’ve done since the financial crisis is we’ve only talked about things that are in our own control like doing the Synchrony spin and things like that. So, I think when you factor in all those things, it’s likely going to be small. We kind of say post Synchrony it’s going to be less than $300 billion. And I think if you look at the competitive advantage, returns, doing it under our control, it's likely going to be smaller than that. We’re on track to be part of the CCAR process in 2017, that’s meaningful. That creates optionality and maybe more in that time period. So that’s how I think about it being really. We’re not in just to be in it. We’re in it to generate good a return.
Jeffery?
Unidentified Analyst
Part of the portfolio change in a sense, at least looks like to de-risk the portfolio as capital gets smaller, but I am thinking kind of the flip side of that. You mentioned projects a couple of times in oil and gas. Obviously with Alstom you're moving in the balance of plant and grid work and things that have kind of been the bane of the existence of some players over the years. How do you actually manage through that? You’re hiring people from Bechtel, so a little bit of an acknowledgement that you do need some help there. And is it having any impact on your cash conversion because it looks like the cash conversion is under a little bit of pressure?
Jeffrey Immelt
So what I would suggest is the project stuff isn’t something we actively seek to increase or decrease. With the asset sales from Alstom, we have it. So we’re learning about it. We’re going to kind of assess our ability to run it and run it well as time goes on. We’re in the integration process, so we’ll learn a lot about it. But it’s not -- it's neither a strategic imperative nor is it something we want to run away from. It just is a function of where we are. And then from a cash conversion standpoint, I think any time progress and things like that go up and down as orders go up and down. But our businesses like power and water, aviation, these are all 20% plus return on capital businesses. So they still are good cash generating over-the-top businesses.
Unidentified Analyst
And just one other final thing, just on Alstom. So will the restructuring actually be up in kind of the corporate segments? I would have thought a lot of that would happen in purchase accounting and…
Jeffrey Immelt
Yes, it’s going to be there as well, Jeff. So I think a lot of this is going to be purchase accounting. But in terms of -- there is always some charges that go to -- when we’ve done acquisitions in the past, there has been charges that have gone to corporate and that’s where those will be. The caveat would be, the corollary to that says in power and water you’re going to see the power and water segment is going to be several hundred million dollars greater of Alstom coming into the second half. So that’s where the upside is.
Unidentified Analyst
Jeff, can you maybe talk about how 4Q orders have tracked? And like specifically, have you seen any change of behavior from customers either the low oil price or strong dollar, any change in behavior at all?
Jeffrey Immelt
So I would say, again guys I am giving you the best I see today. So I would say a slight positive orders lead for the quarter would be my hunch based on where we’re tracking here today. And I think other than oil and gas, aviation commercial’s fares, average daily order rate is the highest since I’ve been CEO. We’ll take more locomotive orders in the second half of the year than any time really in our history. So I don’t see it yet, but I am -- China will have positive orders in the quarter. I think it’s always good to take pause at a time like this and be thoughtful about what’s happening and things like that. So I don’t want to be Nostradamus and things like that. I just am telling you kind of what we see and that’s what we see.
Clearly, oil and gas customers are going to do a double clutch, as they say, go through what their -- some projects will go forward, some projects won’t. But on balance, we’re kind of counting for -- we track what they say about CapEx and then kind of plan for things to be at least that bad if not worse.
Unidentified Analyst
And then secondly, your friends in Bavaria have seen a very different power market in '15 than you do, price down heavily, margins down heavily. Can you just provide some perspective on the power market generally in '15 GE versus your competitors?
Jeffrey Immelt
I think the markets, it’s a competitive market and it’s a flat market. So, I think that’s what most of kind of industry analysts talk about. That’s kind of how we plan it. There is going to be a ton of H activity, there is going to be a ton of large block activity. And then it just depends on where the -- a lot of the action is going to be in Japan next year. So you’re going to see Japan is going to be a super big market, the U.S. is going to be a bigger market next year. So a lot of the pricing ends up being as much about the regional mix as it does about any given transaction I think in terms of where we go. But we’re certainly not counting on the market to be super hot.
Unidentified Analyst
Just a broad question on oil. Is low oil good for GE or bad for GE?
Jeffrey Immelt
So as you imagine, we think a lot about that. I'd say on balance it's probably close to a watch. It's probably close to watch to a slight negative, but it's not a big negative is the way I would think about it. I'd say when our customers make more money, they spend more, but it’s going to have an impact on our oil and gas business.
Unidentified Analyst
And just following up on Steve’s question about cash flow, if you look what you're generating versus your spending on dividend and CapEx, there is sort of not much left to play with. So do we need to wait until CCAR to get more optionality? Can you actually be in a position to actually use the industrial balance sheet beyond '16 if needed or is that also a part of…?
Jeffrey Immelt
I think we have debt capacity on the industrial balance sheet. We’re not counting on it. If you just look at our metrics, there is more cash in GE Capital than just the pure income dividend. But we’re part of a regulatory process and we’re going to have to think about that. But guys, we've got a fantastic set of industrial businesses and we’ve got all the juice we need to continue to grow the industrial franchise. So I feel pretty good about where we are in total. But there is not a data that I don’t want to past Keith and say how about one for the Gipper?
Unidentified Analyst
So your industrial gross margin in the last few years have been on a bit of a decline and some of that is due to, we got this massive equipment cycle. But you look, your service backlog is up strongly, some of the simplification efforts are coming through, you’re starting to incentivize gross margin. At what point you start to see gross margins turn up?
Jeffrey Immelt
I think we’ve already told you that we expect to see them up next year.
Unidentified Analyst
And is there a specific target beyond next year?
Jeffrey Immelt
I think we said 50 a year for the next couple of years. We’ve kind of targeted everything from '16. So we're kind of saying 50 a year in '15 and '16. And so what we’ve done is we’ve underwritten that I think including as much mix as we can see. Mix has certainly hurt us, but it’s not a good excuse. I think we can do a better job on gross margins.
Unidentified Analyst
And the follow up is on the 135 billion in non-core assets that you’re looking at potentially aggressively divesting. Can you talk a little bit about the timing of how you’re thinking about potentially the use of those proceeds once you eventually divest off those assets?
Jeffrey Immelt
I think the -- so we’ve talked a little bit about Australia consumer, you’ve seen the announcements on the Hungarian Bank. We’re going to keep aggressively going after all that consumer red assets, make those smaller. As we shrink, there ought to be more cash optionality in GE Capital. So we would expect that to be reflected overtime in terms of how we go. And Synchrony should be a couple of billion dollar gain, depends on where the stock is and where it closes when we do it. And that will give us more optionality to continue to reduce red assets faster.
Unidentified Analyst
Just a question on healthcare, because from the outside you could look at it and say all it is, is sort of relentless cost cutting. And also you had that Slide 7.
Jeffrey Immelt
Different from every other business.
Unidentified Analyst
Well you had Slide 7 on improving the portfolio. They had this sort of equal sign against healthcare. I wasn’t really sure what that meant. You had a leadership change recently at the business. So is it…
Jeffrey Immelt
I think on the portfolio moves -- look, my view is Amersham is going to generate its cost of capital. I am glad we did it. Healthcare IT, we acquired IDX. We should have been in better position for the EMR wave. That's a pivot we should have done a better job at. Now these businesses pivot. These businesses -- think about power business. We went through the gas turbine bubble, but we’ve led and win. We’ve led in distributed power. We’ve made every good pivot that the business has to make to be successful. So as these businesses, as oil and gas goes through its cycle, as aviation through a cycle, as power and water has gone through maybe the biggest of all cycles, the team pivoted extremely well. And look, we were on the field with a pretty good franchise in healthcare IT. It just didn’t execute as well and that was the wave of growth during over the last five years. Now we haven’t even touched the next wave, but that’s what you should expect us to do.
In terms of healthcare, look, the market has been -- we’ve gone through a massive consolidation, our customers have kind of sat on their wallet for a couple of years. Procedures have started to grow again. If you go back overtime, procedure growth has always been a precursor for new capital equipment growth. My expectation is that the U.S. has a decent year. Europe is going to be very tough. China instead of growing double digits will probably grow high single digits in healthcare. I think all we’re asking we've got to do is kind of low to mid single-digit revenue growth, expand margins and be ready, be positioned.
Unidentified Analyst
And just on industrial overall, you used to give some color on the margin sort of puts and takes, value gap, simplification, R&D. How does that look for next year putting out some aside?
Jeffrey Immelt
So we have got another big year on -- we have got -- so we are expecting margin growth next year. So we expect to be 13% let’s say more or less SG&A percentage of revenue next year. So we expect SG&A to continue to come down and we expect gross margins to be better. And that SG&A, it's going to be a mixture of different stuff. But that’s kind of the pathway we've showed you guys and we expect to be on that pathway.
Unidentified Analyst
So the past few years have been characterized by industrial companies focusing their operations either through tax-free spins or whatnot. And one of the schematics of your pitch very much was big companies like GE have competitive advantages to play in these global arenas. None of us would have expected a deal the size of Alstom because you had been bolt-on centric. I realize it came to you. So how are you now, just as a starting point, thinking about big acquisitions both in that context and then being opportunistic considering you have done now the biggest deal ever?
Jeffrey Immelt
I like way the Company looks right now. I think, John, we basically have exited businesses that didn’t use the GE store. Appliances, we weren’t in it to win, didn’t use our core capability. Every business we have used [Audio Gap] I like the Company the way it looks today.
The second thing I would say is, Alstom has a tremendous value-creating potential for our investors, but it’s going to take all of our hard work to do it. We have plenty on our plate for next year to execute on at Alstom. And we are just not that interested in doing another -- given we like what we have and we have got good value-creating work on our plate right now, that’s enough for right now.
Unidentified Analyst
In fact I think you said that's M&A for '15, '16. So here is my kind of the corollary question. This whole supply-driven dynamic we are in with respect to oil, I guess a lot of us believe that it starts in '15 but spills unless there's some sort of shift. This is going to spill into '16. So you guys have made a big energy footprint commitment for presumably forever. Why not retain the flexibility if market conditions provide to go after and actually get much bigger in energy [Multiple Speakers]
Jeffrey Immelt
It’s a great question. But let me just tell you the way I think about it, which is, I think in oil and gas, we like oil and gas. I will go back, we like and gas. We are diversified in oil and gas. We think this is a seminal business for the world and we want to be in it and we are in it. In this kind of volatility, GE is a very good person for any NOC or IOC to do business with. If you are an IOC and you want to test a $65 a barrel on your new projects, you are going to come to GE to do that. So why would I pay anybody goodwill right now when basically our competitive position is better today relatively speaking than it was a month ago? I think that’s the bottom-line right now. There is just no reason to have to do that.
Our relative competitive position in the businesses we are in has gotten better. These are cycles we know, we have fundamental strength that other people don’t have. Look, we can all arm-wrestle over the value of a conglomerate. We can all arm-wrestle that one. This is exactly the right time to want to be in the multi-business company, exactly the right time. Because our Company is going to grow double-digit EPS next year, even with a much worse oil case than the one we see today, because aviation is doing great and transportation is doing great and we have got Alstom and we have got a bunch of other stuff underway. Those are things that FMC doesn’t have. Those are things that Schlum
doesn’t have. Those are things that none of these guys have. I would like us in that field right now.
Unidentified Analyst
Jeff, a lot of talk about gross margin today, haven’t really noticed that being part of your messaging in the past so much. So I am just wondering what caused that precipitate in such a big line today? And just if you could comment an observation that if you combine that with your SG&A targets, it would seem to put you through the 17% margin target.
Jeffrey Immelt
So, look, I would say we have had a tremendous amount of mix headwind, Chris. And I think before we talk publicly to you guys about stuff, it’s typically stuff we have been working on for a year or two. So we have kind of been percolating I would say that programs around gross margins. And it’s the way you get to 17%, you've got to have both things working. And we've got to allow a little bit of room for mix. I think that’s probably something we can do a better job of. So A, it’s has taken a while. We have got the programs in place. B, I always thought SG&A was a tremendous place to start just because of the nature of the Company had changed so vastly. Just the global footprint of GE is so different today than what it was when I became CEO. Our cost was in the wrong place. Our processes were in the wrong place. So the simplification around SG&A was the best place to focus. And again, I think the combination of Dan and Jeff and Jamie and other people, we’ve got a good set of leaders to get it done.
Unidentified Analyst
So the 50 basis [indiscernible].
Jeffrey Immelt
So in other words, that includes mix.
Unidentified Analyst
Just building on some of the previous questions. If we think about just your embedded assumptions for '15 and '16, quantitatively and qualitatively around price across the board?
Jeffrey Immelt
On pricing of -- on like pure price?
Unidentified Analyst
Yes. So I think you were 2% to 5% organic growth target for '15. But obviously you have been talking about a lot of initiatives around gross margin and then obviously you have a deflationary environment for oil which will allow…
Jeffrey Immelt
Here’s what I would say. I would say we had a positive value gap this year. Our expectation is that we have a positive value gap in '15 and I just think it’s too soon to forecast around '16. So I think you’ve got a lot of positive momentum, a lot of things already in the backlog. There is just nothing inflationary in my world today fundamentally. So we’re going to have pricing pressure in oil and gas. We're going to have maybe gas turbines pricing pressure, stuff like that. But there is nothing we really look at as incoming that’s inflationary at all. So we would expect in fact to get incremental deflation with oil price as well.
Unidentified Analyst
So negative price 2015?
Jeffrey Immelt
I think we look at a positive value gap, which should probably mean orders pricing will be flat to up slightly and we'll get deflation. So you’ll have a positive value gap. But how that plays out in '16 is just too soon to think about it.
Unidentified Analyst
And just last question just around the change in some of the incentives both at the segments and at the C-suite. Could you just comment what you think you've changed for the better or what did you try to do to try to modernize it?
Jeffrey Immelt
I think we always as managers maximize, always want to maximize judgment in terms of how you -- so we've always done both objectives for the Company. We flowed those all the way down. They’ve always been numerically based forever, for 30 years I have been with GE. I think the change we’ve made is just much more formulary. Really it puts judgment aside and basically says what do you want to see as an investor and now you have 5,000 people that are going to get paid that way.
So it’s just complete pass through from what you want in the Company to what a executive band, plant manager and aviation, how they see their incentive comp. And it’s always been directionally the same. Now it is linear. And I think that’s in an uncertain world, that’s certain.
Unidentified Analyst
Just sort of two questions quickly. One is just going back to the lack of likelihood of doing M&A in the oil and gas space. As part of that related to the obvious that Alstom cost you two to three times more than you had expected to spend on acquisitions a couple of years ago. Is that part of it that you feel like…
Jeffrey Immelt
I come back and say, I mean I don’t think -- we’ve got every box covered that we want basically in this space. And fundamentally I think our competitive position is better today than it was six months ago. So organically, we can generate a ton of value versus buying anything. So I never want to say never. I just don’t view it as a strategic imperative for the Company.
Unidentified Analyst
And just secondly, could you talk about how you are looking out to next year? How you’re thinking about buyback versus dividend? And I know you’ve joked around offline, you won’t retire till you get the dividend back up to the high water mark. Can you talk to us little bit about that?
Jeffrey Immelt
Look to buyback, I think Synchrony was a tremendous way and a capital efficient way to buy back a ton of shares at the same time. And so look, we talked about that more than a year ago. It’s now coming more into focus. So that’s a very capital efficient way to do it. I think the Company is well positioned organically. We still invest a lot in organic growth. So we think that’s important. And people like definite -- a vast majority of our investors still like seeing the dividend grow in line with earnings. So I would say dividend aligned with earnings, let’s do a great job of integration on Alstom and see where we are in M&A and let’s use incremental capital beyond that for buybacks. But Synchrony right now is the key driver for the buyback. And between dividend and buyback 40 billion over two years is pretty good.
So let me end there. The team is all here. So cocktails, you can, Lawrence I’m sure will be a popular guy at cocktails, so I’ll let Lawrence go on his own. And thanks and we’ll see you -- we will circulate. Great.
Copyright policy: All transcripts on this site are the copyright of Seeking Alpha. However, we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists, and are excited to contribute to the democratization of financial information on the Internet. (Until now investors have had to pay thousands of dollars in subscription fees for transcripts.) So our reproduction policy is as follows: You may quote up to 400 words of any transcript on the condition that you attribute the transcript to Seeking Alpha and either link to the original transcript or to www.SeekingAlpha.com. All other use is prohibited.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL, CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION, AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS. IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.