General Electric Company (NYSE:GE)
Annual Outlook Investor Meeting Conference Call
December 14, 2016 15:00 ET
Executives
Jeffrey Immelt - Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Jeffrey Bornstein - Chief Financial Officer
Analysts
Jeffrey Sprague - Vertical Research Partners
Deane Dray - RBC Capital Markets
Joe Ritchie - Goldman Sachs
Jeffrey Immelt
Hey, good afternoon, everybody. I guess when you sell NBC, they kick you out of 30 Rock eventually, so we have kept the temperature more or less the same, which I’m sure you are happy about. So welcome, it’s good to be with you. And I am just going to start right in, go through kind of an overview of the company that I am happy to take questions at the end.
So just at the top, just give you a sense of – probably the most optimistic we have been about the U.S. economy in a long time. I think some of the reports we mentioned tax reform and things like that we see is generally positive. Lot of our markets are still pretty strong. I think the headwind remains kind of when is the oil sector and related industries going to recover. We have seen some firming of the price.
And then I think there is kind of, let’s say, five big themes I would have you think about as we go through the presentation. The first one is both Alstom and Baker Hughes are good deals. They add to the company financially and strategically and you are going to see that as I go through the presentation. Digital additive are becoming more real. There are horizontal capabilities inside the company that I think can drive a lot more productivity and also drive growth over time. We have a lot of cost out ideas that are coming from our investment in digital and our experience in the Alstom integration, which we are adding to our base plan.
We are a global company. We think we have got a ton of opportunities outside the United States today and in the future and we will continue to invest to realize those opportunities and the entire team is really committed to execute the $2 bridge by 2018 and I will give you the details of how we expect to get there as I go through the presentation. So you will see those throughout the rest of presentation. This is basically the scorecard for 2016 and I think the message I would give you is that this is consistent with what we talked about in the third quarter earnings call. No change to how we think about EPS, operating EPS. We see free cash flow and dispositions heading towards the marker we gave you in October. Same way cash return to investors and we increased the dividend again last week, so we continue to make progress on returning cash for investors. So we kind of see the fourth quarter coming in more or less the way we talked about in October.
Again, portfolio, GE Store, so strong businesses, GE Store, two of the big investment areas that we focus on are really harnessing the value of the digitization of our assets and additive manufacturing and really positioned to be a leader in productivity as we look at the future. So the way we have kind of structured the presentation today is to talk through how we have improved the portfolio by making it simpler and deeper, how we are leveraging the GE Store to improve organic growth and margins and how that plays into the $2 share by 2018 and the bridge. So, despite the oil and gas headwind, so that’s kind of the presentation that I will take you through today.
Here is just – again, so you have got this in mind as you are going through the rest of the presentation. We are basically going to go from $1.48 to $1.52 this year, $1.60 to $1.70 in 2017 and $2 in 2018. And I would give you two walks that help you see kind of how we get there. The first one goes back to April of 2015 and what’s changed, right? So clearly, the oil and gas markets are tougher than we saw in April of ‘15. We think that cost us $0.10 or $0.15 a share. Capital allocation and this is incremental buyback, the impact of LM and Baker Hughes over that time period as it pertains to the M&A that’s different, net of dispositions, so that’s about $0.05, and then an incremental $0.10 a share of cost takeout, some of which is already underway, and more I will talk about this plan in ‘17 and ‘18. So, that’s one walk from, let’s say, April of 2015 until today.
And then the other walk that I go through starts at the end of this year, 2016 and says how do you get from $1.48 to $1.52 to $2 in 2018? And that’s really $0.16 of buyback, $0.15 of capital allocation. Again, this is M&A, this is how Baker Hughes comes in, this is how the acquisitions come in over that time period and then $0.18 a share of operations. And the way to think about the $0.18 a share of operations is think about 3% to 5% organic, which has been our run-rate and 50 basis points of margin enhancement. This has really been our run-rate over the last 5 years, plus an incremental $1 billion of cost takeout. So basically, you start this year, you add the buyback that’s already underway, you add the M&A that’s already announced that’s underway to execute over the next couple of years, and you basically have the run-rate of operations plus an additional $1 billion, which are in the plans, in the compensation plans, already begun, well-identified, programmatic. That’s how I think about the walk to the $2 bridge. So, the walk from ‘15, walk from this year, how it interfaces with what our run-rate has been and what the expectations are of the leadership team. So this, again, I think, frames how we think about the operating plan and how we think about the company going forward.
Portfolio, we have made the company simpler. We have made the company deeper, okay? We have invested in core businesses through Baker Hughes and with Alstom. We have really made, I think, smart investments to make the company a winner in the digital world and the supply chain value, both from backward integration and from additive, I think really positions the company well. And then we have made the company simpler by executing on the GE Capital pivot really a year ahead of time and the dispositions of appliances, of water, and today, we are announcing the disposition of our Industrial Solutions business. So just simplifying the portfolio, so making it more focused and making it deeper and we think we are very well positioned in terms of how we look at the future.
Leadership business, this gives you just kind of a view of 2017 and the numbers are – really reflect the industrial business, the verticals and the earnings numbers include corporate. So, basically, $135 billion from revenue, more than $19 billion in earnings, diversified, strong, really launching big industrial solutions and systems, big service portfolio. And when I think about the execution and what’s important, execute the deals with excellence in Alstom and Baker Hughes, make the right investments to lead the Digital Industrial, drive the backward integration play and invest in manufacturing. We have got some fast growth segments where we are really embracing kind of what I would call buy-and-build type strategy, exiting the businesses that we think somebody can run better than we can, and evolve towards an industrial balance sheet with the incremental leverage. So in this plan, what you are going to see is there is still probably $10 billion of leverage that’s unassigned in the numbers I showed you on the last page. So, you still have incremental flexibility in the base plan as I look at how we are performing over the next couple of years.
Baker Hughes, we like the Baker Hughes deal. You had a chance to meet with the leadership team last week. You got a chance to see the details of how we think about the two companies coming together. I think we thought that there was a gap in our oil and gas business that oilfield services would help us fill. This is the right time in the cycle to be able to execute on an opportunity like that. So, we viewed it as the right time in the cycle and good pool of synergies both from a cost and a revenue standpoint. It really gives us – makes us one of three big players in the oil and gas industry, lots of opportunities to use the GE Store in terms of how to create value. And we think from an investor standpoint, both the synergies, but also the cyclical balance that this gives us in the oil and gas business I think are tremendous upsides. So, we think this is a good deal for investors at the right time in the cycle.
I like the Alstom deal more and more as time goes on where we have had a year. So I think what we know in this year is that we can execute on the cost of synergies. That’s never an easy task given such a big footprint in Europe. The technology has made us better, so the bottoming cycle in the gas turbine has improved because of what Alstom brings to the party. It’s filled in some gaps that we didn’t have. What wasn’t in the plan that we now see is that we can grow it. So we really didn’t count on any revenue synergies and we feel a little bit more confident about that today. And the lengthy, there is no doubt that 18 months of being in play hurt the underlying asset as we put them together. But we now see Alstom kind of towards the high end of what we had originally talked about. We think it makes the company more competitive over the long-term. Here again the GE Store adds substantial amount of value, both from a global footprint, from a cost-out standpoint and we still see a good return in the mid-teens as we think about the investment. So we think both Baker Hughes and Alstom, two big bets for the company, we like the way both of them position ourselves – positioned GE financially and strategically.
We started making investments in kind of the digital footprint of the company in 2010. We now see kind of an $8 billion order run rate next year and that’s really $5 billion ex, let’s say AGPs or really the Predix and software and that’s growing 20% to 30% this year and next year, so good momentum overall. We have got more than 20,000 developers right now. We are on track to have 500 partners. Think about this as people that have underwritten Predix from a standpoint of how they feel it’s going to operate in the industrial Internet. We had about $300 million of orders this year. We will have about $1 billion of Predix orders next year and its generating productivity. So really what our priorities are in 2017 is to continue to drive the Predix adoption in the industrial marketplace and really be the leader in asset performance management, what we call APM and in elements of the digital threat, primarily services is the place where we want to lead. So that’s kind of an overview.
This is the technical stack of Predix. So think about this as almost like a product launch. We announced four acquisitions this year, but really those four acquisitions were along the lines of accelerating the adoption of Predix. Forrester, which is an outside firm that really ranks kind of digital performers for CIOs, ranks Predix as one of the four preeminent platforms along with PTC, IBM, Bluewave and Azure. So we are in a pretty good company. Bit Stew allows us to get data more easily. Meridium is the leader in asset performance management. ServiceMax gives us capability in the service kind of cockpit, if you will and Wise.io which is just the machine-learning shop at the University of California. So all these help us accelerate our efforts in Predix. And like I said, we will have $1 billion in Predix orders this year.
This is kind of a boring chart actually, but it’s actually quite an important one. And that we have talked about asset performance management. We will do about $1 million digital twins by the end of this year and that’s what provides a catalog of applications and Meridium allows us to do that for non-GE assets. And then we deliver that through CSAs and services and site licenses and things like that. And then, what’s in the middle is what the customer looks at, which is 5% more output, lower heat rates, improved performance, improved flexibility. And so each one of these squares out there is worth tens of millions for utility or billions to the industry, so unless you can create this for every one of your industry sectors, you are just a pretender in this game. And this is a combination of both physics and analytics and this is something that GE is in the lead on and this is why you see our service growth rates ticking up, that’s what you see Predix orders ticking up. And so this is actually quite important. So asset performance management is the place we are going to win, it’s a place we are going to lead.
Similarly services, think about ServiceMax as really the equivalent of CRM for services. So this is actually printing work orders for service tax, it’s scheduling, it’s providing kind of that digital cockpit, if you will, like CRM would for sales force. And what we can add to this capability is all of the stuff that’s of value. So asset performance management, better lifing of parts, how do you do smart CSAs, all the content we have. So the green box is what ServiceMax brings and that’s really having this scheduling suite ability to do workforce planning, things like that and GE brings a ton of content. And there will be a player someday that looks like salesforce.com in services, there will be a CRM player in services and your company is kind of sitting at the pole position as that gets created. So again each year, we make a little bit more progress and I feel pretty good about the progress we are making.
Ecosystem 500 partners again, these are companies that are underwriting Predix saying, we think it’s going to be a winner. And we have got people like Microsoft and Tata, Reliance, industrial customers doing a lot of capability there. And then we have also been investing in footprint, so foundries, global software centers, the ability to pool our own software inside the company digitally and building that out around the world. Now, I think the message I would give you is we are in good position and we are starting to be on the other side of the investment load in this world. So two thoughts I would give you. One is the revenue that’s going to be coming in over the next 2 years is now starting to offset the cost. So, so far particularly with Predix, this has been a lot of costs with no revenue. That starts switching. And the other one is that digital capability is allowing us to take our own IT on which we spend a bunch of money and make that a horizontal function instead of a vertical function, which is going to allow us to run IT much more productively in the future. So without the groundwork, we wouldn’t be in that position where we are today.
Now, the last thing I would say about digital is other people who are starting to join us. And this is a chart, this is a direct lift right off of the Baker Hughes presentation from last week. And the only thing I would say to you is when you take a service platform like Baker Hughes and you arm them now with both technology and data, this makes – this is a really a competitive enterprise as it pertains to how you think about the oil field service world. So this is a pure case of GE synergy turning out to provide a great capability with the new acquisition that we are adding to the family. So that’s Digital. I think there is a lot of juice in our supply chain. Guys, I have been doing this a while and when I look back, I think our capability has grown immensely and I think we can apply more of that to our supply chain today in terms of generating higher margins and more value.
So LM is blades. It’s kind of an easy one and that we have relationships the way we capture margin. So where a lot of the performance technology is going as it pertains to how do you get $0.03 win and things like that. So this is one that boosts our global capability, our performance and allows us to run a much more competitive cost-out play on the blades side. And then the right hand side is what I would basically call the aviation power value chain. We made small acquisitions this year, which are going to allow us to be much more competitive as we source investment castings, a company called Metem that Steve did in the power business is going to make us a ton more competitive there. In generators, this is really using the Alstom capacity and source. So this makes us a lot more competitive there. And then HRSGs, as we have grown to H turbine, the capacity need for HRSGs is immense and we acquired the Doosan capability, very low cost. And again, all these are going to help us grow gross margin, all of them are going to help us grow our margins overall and build our competitive position, so we feel great about how that’s positioned.
We are believers and we have been believers in additive manufacturing for probably almost 10 years, been investing heavily for 5 years. I think if you are in the complex metallic industries, this is very important. On the right hand side of the page, this is what Vic and the team have been doing at the GRC to develop materials, equipment, technology and capability. And then we added to that two of the players in the additive space as a way to kind of give us a chance to front-end load our ability to attack the market. So, roughly of the market as it exists today, we have roughly 20% market share, let’s say, with lots of capabilities. We are the biggest practitioner and you are in the very beginning parts of the industry.
Now I am going to fix the right hand side first, because this is what you are going to eat the fastest as it pertains to how this investment goes, right? This is a $3 billion to $5 billion cost-out pool that we think is in the running for what additive can do. There is 15 parts in production right now. David Joyce is kind of running this play for us. Our goal is to have 500 parts in production by 2020. This is a lot. This would make us, by far, the biggest in the world. We have got tiger teams in each business that are kind of assigned to get these parts underway. We have got multiple used cases and tremendous opportunities as it pertains to driving additive inside GE.
A CT Collimator, this is what may give a CT image quality. This has been a sole source part for like 100 years since Edison, right? This is one of these critical perfect additive parts that exist. The HA Shroud, again, that’s translating the capability into the power business and the CT7 Frame is a helicopter engine. So, this gives you a sense of what’s possible there. On the left hand side, if you kind of open up the hood on what these machines, they look at a high level like a CT scanner or an MR scanner. This is packaging of components, sophisticated design. The trick is to get the right number of lasers or expanding amount of lasers and to make capacity bigger, right? So, we will be about $0.5 billion by next year. We can take these small companies about 100 engineers, triple it in 1 year, have a sales force, have financing and this will grow as time goes on. So, pick whichever side, you will eat the right hand side first, we all will, but we have the opportunity to stand up a very important business in this as well.
And then this just gives you a schematic. So think about this – think about the primary the count as size, right? What limits you today is how big a part you can make. And the part today, the machines are about 400 millimeters cube today. We have got a dream to get 1,000 millimeters. On its way, we will be about 500. So, as you get bigger, this is kind of a GNX, this gives you a sense of what you can make with the machine. So right now, you can only make small parts, but as you increase the equipment size, it sweeps in more and more of the engine as time goes on. That’s the promise of this technology, right?
When you own GE, you own more metallurgy patents than any company on the planet. So when it comes to material science, lasers things like that, that’s really the strength of the Global Research Center. So, here is where the productivity basically comes in. So digital, these are two kind of horizontal capabilities that are going to be important for the future. And lastly, we are still investing on what I would call small bolt-ons. This is the life science business, which continues to grow organically, close to 10%, high margin, high cash profile, ways that we can launch into new segments like cell therapy and do it without big deals, do it with the combination of Global Research Center. If you look at the equipment across the top, these all basically come out of the Global Research Center and then we can bolt on technologies and service businesses. So in Life Sciences, we use our venture arm. We do small deals. We use the GRC. And this gives you a good example of how we grow that business as time goes on.
Simplifying the company, look, there is no doubt that the GE Capital play, I think as the team has done a fantastic job. Rich and Jeff and Dan and everybody have done a fantastic job. We are kind of in the process of finishing that and getting positioned for the future. And then two other simplifying, let’s say, divestitures that we have done, we announced water at the same time that we announced the Baker Hughes deal, a ton of interest in the water asset, the water franchise. So I expect that to be a very active process.
Industrial Solutions for us is a $3 billion business. We think there is going to be a lot of interest in people that don’t have a North American platform and see where good opportunities come. And between those two, it’s going to be $4 billion of cash, $2.5 billion of restructuring that we can now apply to the incremental cost out goals we have as a company. So we think this just makes a lot of sense of cash, good cash generation through the cycles and a good way to run the company. So portfolio, let’s think about more focused, deeper GE Store, better positioned to generate good organic growth and good margin enhancement.
Now, this is a busy page, capital allocation. Just because what I am trying to do is march back to kind of what we talked about in 2015 and then at the same time allow you to see what some of the optionality of the company is from – when we stand here today. So, if you look at ‘16 to ‘18, you basically got $95 billion of cash through kind of our normal generation mechanism, CFOA, GE Capital dividends, divestitures, things like that, plus the $20 billion of leverage that we have talked about in the past, right. And when you think about uses, the company uses, let’s say, $81 billion over that time period and that talks about parent cash, dividend, the buyback that comes from the GE Capital announcements, organic investments and pension funding. So when we finished last year and when we talked about kind of the GE Capital pivot, we talked about, at that time, $20 billion of leverage and an additional $10 billion of cash that the company generated that could be used for incremental, let’s say, allocation goals, right, either M&A or buyback or things like that and that $30 billion is now $34 billion, because now we have two additional divestitures, right? So, the $30 billion now is $34 billion.
And so what I will now do is kind of walk you through the $34 billion. So, how did we use the incremental capital? About $15 billion is M&A, so that’s a combination of Baker Hughes $7 billion and then the other $8 billion is kind of sweeping up the additional Alstom joint ventures that we will probably do in 2018, LM, acquisitions like that. There is $8 billion of incremental buyback. So when we announced the GE Capital move in April of 2015, it was $35 billion from capital, plus $20 billion of Synchrony, right, that’s $55 billion, that number is now $63 billion, right. So you probably thought about $59 billion, that’s what we talked about in October. That $59 billion is now $63 billion. And then there is an additional $10 billion left over that’s completely unassigned in our $2 bridge, right? This can be used for buyback or M&A or the rate best returning activity. Okay. So, that’s how to walk the capital allocation from both last year and this year and how we are positioned going forward. So, that’s capital, that’s portfolio.
I will now talk about the GE Store. So we run a set of industrial businesses, but we intersect those businesses on common horizontal capability and these are things like technology, global operations, services, Predix, additive manufacturing, industrial finance, GE Capital, horizontal capabilities that we bring together to try to make consistent performance, drive good competitive advantage and that’s how we define the GE Store, right. And the value of the GE Store has to be viewed in light of performance. So when I think about the company, I think about an organic growth rate that, let’s say, over the last 5 or 6 years has averaged about 5%, so higher than our peers. Over that time period, we have been able to expand margins by 60 basis points and we have been able to generate that 60 basis points even while we have been in a higher investment cycle. So we have had the leap, we have had the H, we have added the Tier 4, we have been in a heavier Predix cycle. And so kind of when we look at the next few years, we see an opportunity to continue the run-rate, right of organic growth, so 3% to 5% organic growth. And the target for the team, the commitment for the team is 100 basis points of margin expansion and that’s continuing the run rate. We have a lower burn rate as it pertains to the H and the Leap and some of the investments that we have made. That was naturally going to come off and we got $1 billion of incremental cost-out, really driven primarily by the ways that we think we can run the business better – the company better horizontally and some incremental ideas that we look at footprint, that we have really learned as we have gone through the Alstom integration.
So basically, the team that you see in the front row here, all of us, our operating plan is 3% to 5% organic, 100 basis points of margin improvement and that’s how we are really framing 2017, 2018. And we think it’s justified based on the run rates we have been able to achieve organically from a revenue standpoint, the run rate that we have been able to achieve from a margin standpoint, plus incremental actions that we can take on. So roughly speaking, that’s $1 billion of costs out of $100 billion cost pool. So those are – that gives you kind of the opportunity set that we think the company has.
Marching through the store, technology, we invest about $10 billion a year. What we really try to do is innovate at scale. We like things like the LEAP engine because it creates a competitive advantage. Those are hard things to do. It allows us to build a big installed base as time goes on. And we align our technical teams on what are the things that matter. So $0.03 win, 65% gas turbine efficiency, doubling the productivity of an oil and gas field, being able to launch MR scanners that don’t need helium, capturing value in the solar industry through inverters, setting up the next generation of aircraft engine that’s more electric powered than just gas powered. So these are the some of the things we work on technically. And then this is the aspect of the GE Store. What we tend to do in the Global Research Center, in Vic’s leadership, is work on technologies like CMCs or artificial intelligence or other technologies that span the entire company. And this is again the way that size can be leveraged. It’s how we can drive, I would say, better accomplishment around these big systems and why we can get to market more quickly. So this is the essence of technology.
From a growth standpoint there has really been I would say, three levers that we pull to kind of try to create sustainable growth. One is in service where we have a massive backlog and a good track record of both organic growth and margin enhancement and this is a big player in the GE Store. We have an active service council, we share productivity ideas, we share footprint. In the case of Predix, Predix is a big driver of services for both productivity and incremental growth. And from a global standpoint, as you know, John leads a very strong global operation, almost $70 billion in revenue. It allows us to attack infrastructure markets. We have good shared cost structure from a facility standpoint and financing, so really great aspects there. And then from a solution standpoint, increasingly we align GE Capital to be a strong boost in terms of how we grow our company industrially. And what we call GE to GE sourcing, which with Alstom, we have the ability to really source about $5 billion inside the company up from $2.5 billion and this is really allows us to drive incremental growth and profit as we think about the GE to GE opportunities. So these are all ways that we can sustain organic growth and margin enhancement when you think about the big platforms of the company.
Services has always been a big driver of competitive advantage and profitability. We have averaged about 5% organic growth over time. This year, it was 3% because we were depressed by some of the service revenue in the oil and gas sector. Next year, when I look at backlogs and we look at run rates, there is a fantastic opportunity to have a great year in services in 2017. And that’s going to be driven by upgrades, what we still see a very strong pipeline, not just in the power business, but across the portfolio, but another good year in power upgrades. Extended scope, this is one of the benefits that we got from Alstom is the ability to work on balance of plant. But this is something that all of the GE service businesses are really marching down towards both extended scope and driving kind of aged fleets and things like that.
Repower and Mods, so in the wind business, there is tremendous demand for repower that we think is going to be quite strong in 2017. And in the locomotive business, modification to allow for upgrades of old fleets is going to be very strong next year. Flexible contracts, we see from an aviation standpoint, we are going to get probably close to high single-digit, 10% organic growth in services and aviation next year and this is a big piece of that. Asset performance management that I talked about four ways to create value both from a growth and a margin standpoint in all of our service contracts. And healthcare has gone from being flat or 1% organic grower to 3% or 4% organic grower by using a lot of the same capabilities that the rest of the company is using. So between repower, upgrades, big installed bases and power and in aviation, we are going to see very strong organic growth in the service franchises in 2017. So that’s service.
Globally, the advantage we have had globally is we have a diversified portfolio. So we really are not dependent on any one country. We are very strong across a number of different geographies China, India, the resource-rich countries. We just have a very strong global footprint. And the big drivers of incremental growth as it pertains to globalization in the next couple of years are – I just put four of them down, we are quoting probably 25 gigawatts of wind outside the United States, $10 billion or $15 billion of locomotives outside the United States. We have got five countries that are developing gas to power programs. So those have a lot of GE content in them. And from a healthcare standpoint, our China and India businesses are growing revenues 10%-plus. So we have lots of growth drivers as it pertains to how we think about the world in 2017 and we don’t – we are not so leveraged to anyone specific product or country to not be able to drive growth.
Now, globalization has achieved some commentary lately. So I have put in a little bit of – a little bit of context as the owners of our company, so we are almost $70 billion globally. And we have grown our global business more than twice our business in the U.S. over the last 15 years. And you sit here today, I would say we have one of the best and most flexible global positions of any company in your investor set, right. So we are in a bunch of different countries. We are a huge exporter from the United States. So we are a huge exporter, small importer, vis-à-vis the U.S. We have lots of local presence and capability. We have got the right partners in every part of the world and a very good local skill set.
Now, we have done all that with really an antiquated tax plan, no EXIM bank and I would say more or less on our own over the last 10 years or 15 years. If we got tax reform, if we got an EXIM bank, those things are good for you and me, right. So these are good things for the future of the company and the perspective of how we look at the world. It’s very important for us to be able to explain the difference between globalization and outsourcing, right. The world today, maybe 20 years or 25 years ago, this was fundamentally about making refrigerators in Mexico to ship them to the United States. That’s not globalization today. Today, over the last 15 years, 85% of our gas turbines and jet engines have been sold outside the United States, 85%. That’s globalization today. So that’s what we are working on with the flexible infrastructure. We think we are in good shape and we have taught ourselves to beat the competition all over the world. We think that’s made the company better. We also think it fits into the ability to create jobs both in U.S. and every place. So that’s kind of a little bit on the globalization.
Let me shift gears now just talk about cost. Let me talk about how to think about the 50 basis points, how to think about the run-rate and how to think about how – what we view as being incremental and what we are excited about in terms of ways we think we can run the place even more efficiently in the future. So when I think about what’s in the run-rate, we have got good progress on factory productivity, we have been driving kind of what we call brilliant factory now for a couple of years. We have got good capability in vertical integration vis-à-vis the company, so natural margin enhancement in that regard. There is a couple of hundred million dollars of less NPI spend, just from the standpoint of getting on the other side of LEAP, getting on the other side of H. So we feel like we have underwritten kind of how do we sustain margins more efficiency as it pertains to how we run corporate, SG&A down, lots of activities on cost sell.
And then I think as you think about the future, we have got about $1.7 billion of ideas that are loaded into our plans that are incremental, looking to yield about $1 billion of the $1.7 billion. And I break those into a couple of buckets. One is we have been really funding Predix without revenues so far. We are going to get some offset in revenue as we look forward in the future. So, the digital burn rate is going to decline as time goes on.
From a SG&A standpoint, we have done global ops for probably 5 years, which is really taking back from operations and driving them horizontal. Last year in the power business, we pulled all of our IT and ran it as a horizontal. We saw great savings. Looking to future, we are going to take IT inside the company. Instead of every business having its own IT group, we are going to run on horizontal platforms. We are going to have a sales platform, manufacturing platform, service platform and we think there is a 10% savings based on what we have seen and the experiments we have run across the company, and that’s about $500 million over 2 years. So, we basically are rolling that forward based on what we have seen. We are just 100x more capable today than we have ever been before. We think this is a big efficiency driver.
We are going to continue to squash SG&A as it pertains to getting the 12% and then some, so making the functions less. We are going to 8 layers down from 12. So kind of when we started this a couple of years ago, we are now another 2 layers down inside the company and just generally leaner structure. So, the horizontal IT yields $450 million, $500 million. We look at the burn rate, that’s an incremental of $200 million. And then we just have seen as we have gone through the Alstom integration, two additional buckets of costs that we think are extremely fruitful. One is just rooftops. We just see the opportunity on the GE side and particularly with the restructuring, with the gains we have got with Industrial Solutions, another big cut at rooftops and then pushing even more functions inside the company, inside a horizontal structure, something that we have seen as part of Alstom is the ability to take requisition engineering, and a company our size is about $3 billion, $2 billion or $3 billion, the ability to get another 5% or 10% out of that. So, we see good opportunities across the company to go from 50 or 60 basis points of margin enhancement a year up to 100 basis points and that’s really how we are running the place and where we are focused. So again, these are the things that are part of the, let’s say, the ongoing structural execution of the company.
Services productivity, this is better repairs, this is better materials, this is making better decisions around how we do CSAs, product learning curve, this is both the burn rate from an R&D standpoint, but also each one of these products kind of coming down the learning curve. Acquisition integration, we have got good momentum as it pertains to the deals we have done and see good opportunities to even consolidate further. We will do $1 billion of deflation this year. One of the things had more transparency around digitalization have given us a lot more ideas on how to buy more intelligently across the company. We look at C&D parts, which are just really nuts and bolts and screws that we can buy $50 million or $100 million more efficiently just by pooling visibility inside the company, 65% in the company on global operations and horizontal functions inside GE. So, tremendous opportunity to drive efficiency there. And now that we have got that, we are getting 5% to 10% productivity year-over-year and just a smaller corporate. So we will be below $2 billion and we will continue to take that number down each and every year. The Boston move is cleansing, right? It gives us a chance to rethink the way that we run corporate and that’s been very good. So, these are the things that have been underway for a while, that would give us a good baseline of productivity that’s kind of in the company going forward.
And then the incremental activity, there is between all of the assets that we have today, there is more than 500 rooftops still around the world. We have got an opportunity to take a big chunk out of this. We are looking to get $100 million a year. There is plenty of capacity. We have got 150 million square feet of factory in service space. So lots of opportunities to rationalize facilities and ample opportunities with the gains we have to be able to drive that into operations.
As I have said, digital investment. We have got $300 million of orders this year, $1 billion of orders next year, revenue for Predix starts in ‘17, builds ‘18 and beyond. We think the digital burn rate that has been a part of setting up GE Digital that now was being offset by revenue, [indiscernible] coming down the other side. We spent $5 billion on IT. We are now going to run this, using platforms. So 100% reuse on the programs we have. We are going to go from 9,000 applications down to 7,000 applications, tremendous focus on infrastructure and backroom productivity. We are looking to get about $250 million a year, about 5% a year over the next couple of years in terms of how we run IT inside the company. And then one of the things that we noticed as we were integrating Alstom was the ability to take what’s called requisition engineering. These are people that are doing design drawings for their projects business, but we also use them on our Transportation business and the Power business running this more as a horizontal function as time goes on. We think there is another 10% of cost out that we can get there.
So, if you think about over the next couple of years, this is just four of the big buckets of ideas. We have got about almost $2 billion of ideas that are going to be loaded in. And on our cost base, it’s just not a lot of – lot of the ideas have come to us really through more investment in digital has allowed us to see where the opportunities are. And just as we have done, I would say, a big complicated integration like Alstom, we now look at our own assets in a different way in terms of what’s possible and the ability to drive more integration and more productivity as time goes on. So that’s the way we think about where margins can go, where organic growth can go and how we are positioned for the next couple of years in terms of operations.
From a cash flow standpoint, again, one of our goals is to get 95% free cash flow conversion into the operations. We will be at about 85% this year, 80% to 85%. One of the things that has been a headwind this year has been the Alstom backlog as it’s come forward had less cash than what we anticipated. But basically, the underlying businesses are still performing the way we thought they would perform this year. And the difference between getting being an 85% and getting 95% is between $3 billion and $3.5 billion of working capital reduction. That’s what we got to target. For us, that’s a little bit less than 1 turn. And so the goal really has to be to hit the biggest bucket and that’s inventory. So that’s where a lot of the focus of the company has been in terms of how do we do a better job with inventory, how do we do a better job to get to the 95%. And all of the bonus programs are tied into this kind of capability and this kind of focus.
Now Philippe Cochet, Philippe raise your hand. So, Philippe is really leading inside the company all the activities around manufacturing footprint, Brilliant Factory, productivity programs, things like that. Philippe joined us from Alstom, was one of the key business leaders there, had been with GE and really takes – has taken Dan Heintzelman’s place. And so we take all of our factories and we grade them on lean, how they do on lean and how they do on digitalization, so we basically have a couple of hundred factories and the goal is to be a 4.4, right. The goal – that’s what the best factories are and we call that brilliant factory. And so the notion is we are pushing each one of the factors in terms of lean, visibility cost out and I just gave you kind of a smorgasbord of different operations.
Florence is the big turbo machinery factory, big lead time reduction. Lead times are really the way to get more inventory out of the system, a big deal there. Hino is kind of in the outskirts of Tokyo. It’s where we make CT scanners. The idea is to get less touch time, less hours and content and better inventory turns. Muskegon is one of our avionics factories in Michigan. I think it was an old Smith factory David, that we acquired, big improvement in the inventory and cost-out. Grove City is where we make diesel engines. So Grove City is south of Erie. It’s maybe one of the world’s biggest engine factories, tremendous performance in terms of basically visibility in the factory. It’s maybe inside our company, got the best application of APM in a GE site of any other factory, that’s Grove City. Haiphong is a factory we have built. They do a lot of wind turbine capabilities in very productive plant, more productive actually than China. Have been doing a good job on productivity and lead times. And Pune is a brand new multi-modal facility that we built in India. So it does oil and gas, it does wind, it does a bunch of different things. Its operating cost per hour is $45, so this might be one of the most productive factories in the world. So this just give you a sense of, I would say, the underlying operational disciplines that are going into – getting inventory reduction and what we call brilliant factory, which is this combination of lean and digitization in our own shops. And by the way, our goal is to make – we will probably have between 10 and 20 GE show sites that we bring customers of Predix to come to see when they want to think about their own manufacturing efficiency programs in the future.
All roads lead to inventory. This is the place that’s the biggest bucket of opportunities get into. We would like to get $2 billion to $3 billion of inventory out of the system as we think about the next couple of years. This is going to be essential. They are hitting the 95% goal. Jeff assigned a bunch of the audit staff people. We have got some outside people that are helping us from a standpoint, just getting the right metrics aligned. Philippe is leading this effort. And down below, you just see a couple of easy examples that are fundamentally about lead times; one in energy connection and one in oil and gas. They just talk about $10 million, $20 million, $30 million at a crack in terms of how do you get inventory out. So we basically have line of sight on $1 billion of what I would call just general housekeeping of how do you get more inventory out of the system, by just doing a better job of disciplines around lead times, how you order things like that, and then another $1 billion to $2 billion has to be more structural as it pertains to how we get cash and inventory out of the system. So that’s kind of the way to think about free cash flow conversion of what’s important going forward.
So lastly, maybe just talk about how we see 2017. Power and renewables had very strong earnings growth in ‘16 and we expect the same in ‘17. So my hunch is that those two businesses will be, let’s say high single-digit organic revenue growers as well. So when I would frame those businesses strong, revenue growth strong, earnings growth as you think about how they are positioned. Oil and gas, tough year this year, we think next year will also be negative, but not as bad as 2016 and that’s kind of the way we frame the oil and gas segment going forward. And the other business that’s kind of gotten hit in this cycle from a natural resource standpoint has been the transportation business. So we look in transportation for kind of another year in 2017 more or less the same as 2016.
Healthcare, aviation ought to have good solid years in 2016. We will have good solid years in 2017. Organic growth in the mid single-digits, I would say, a bit strong, pretty solid. And that’s how those businesses kind of line up. And then we look at the pretty descent segment operating profit growth next year. The verticals will be more or less flat year-over-year and corporate will be probably down a smidge, something like that. That’s how I think about the plan. And then I would say this year, two things hit us, oil and gas hit us hard and FX hit us hard in 2016. We don’t see a big headwind from FX in 2017, maybe plus or minus $0.01, but nothing like what it was this year. So I think pretty – in Energy Connections, we just expect a turnaround year, right. We just expect lots of restructuring, lots of opportunities to operate better and an opportunity to do better in that business. So good cost-out programs, pretty good organic growth, less headwind in FX, oil and gas sector is still pressured vis-à-vis how we think about the company going forward.
And the way you get this to the high end of the range is just, I think fundamentally about execution. In our plan, we are counting on our tax rate going from the low-teens to the mid-teens next year. Who knows where tax reform wound up going and what that means. And then do we catch, does oil go from $50 or low-$50s, and does it go up and do people get a little bit more confident, I think that what’s gets it at the high end. And then kind of low end might be created by – if oil and gas got worse or even stronger dollar, things like that that we had to factor into the plan. So I think a descent balanced plan. Pretty much within our expectations as we have done it, lots of execution ahead as we think about how we go. And this is kind of – we always published this as the framework. So we talked about organic growth in margins, corporate between $1.8 billion and $2 billion.
The Alstom EPS that will be at the high end, I think we talked about $0.08 to $0.10. We see $0.09 to $0.10. Our gains are $2.5 billion. So gains are $2.5 billion and restructuring will be $2.5 billion. So that’s a lot, that’s a lot, right. And tax rate in the mid-teens. That’s kind of the way we would think about the operating EPS. Operating cash flow, 16 to 20, the capital dividend of 6 to 7 and the industrial business is between 12 and 14. Pension funding of $1.8 billion, which I think we have talked about in the past, about pension funding. We have got dispositions in there and that P&E of 3 to 4. So that’s kind of the way we think about the capital allocation. We talked about the dividends last week. The dividend is $8 billion and buyback between $11 billion and $13 billion. And then we still have $10 billion on the sidelines as it pertains to incremental leverage and we will think about that as time goes on in terms of the best usage of that capital.
Here is how we get paid, which is not unimportant, particularly for the front – first row here in the room. So we have two leverage points. One is called the AEIP and this is the annual incentive compensation plan. And basically the company sets the pool and then the individual businesses kind of do better or worse, they get indexed off, 100% or it can go to 150% or go down into negative territory and that’s kind of the way the annual plan works. And so the kind of the company AEIP is really set on the organic growth and the margins we talked about and each business will have more discrete metrics around working capital and things like that. And then there are probably five or seven strategic goals for each business. And on the right hand side is the long-term incentive plan. That’s always a 3-year plan and that goes from ‘16 to ‘18. And the goals always have a range, they have a mean and a target and a threshold targeted max. And then that’s how these numbers track. And I think this is in the proxy and pretty much aligned to the way you guys think about the company and what’s important to you. So when I talk about the plan, it’s always good to wrap it up by saying our interests are truly aligned as it pertains to the compensation of the team.
And then lastly, there is a really strong company here. I think if you think about the portfolio of the company, you have got an amazing power practice, power and renewable franchise. You have got an amazing oil and gas franchise. You have got an amazing healthcare franchise. You have got an amazing what I would call transportation aviation franchise and $235 billion of service backlog. So, that’s kind of the sets of businesses that we have that are important. We have got horizontal capabilities around technology, globalization, digitization, the way we run the installed base, so very strong horizontal capabilities that we think underpin execution. We’ve got a pretty good profile when you think about organic growth margins and cash optionality. And I think you have a ticket on the two most important – for industrial companies, the two most important productivity drivers of this era which are the combination of industrial assets and digital assets and additive manufacturing. So you have got the leading position in early days of the two things that are going to matter going forward.
So, that’s the company. Let me take some questions. I always – just for the sake of tradition, I have to – sorry, Scott, I have to go with Cliff first. So, this is just – since he is the guy who looks the most like Santa Claus. So, I have to kind of start the holiday season.
Question-and-Answer Session
Q - Unidentified Analyst
Bite your tongue it’s the season of bah-humbug. I am going to ask a great, big 35,000 foot question, because I think it’s really important. If I look back over the last 20 years at GE, the mindset of how this company is managed has changed probably 4x, maybe 3x, but you are coming into a new age. You are coming in to making – you are asking your people to think about new things, new models, digitization is new to everybody in the world. I got on the IT manufacturing chip, 20 years ago, I was only 17 years too early, but – so that’s new to everybody else. How do you get people to think in terms of those new constructs? Particularly, how do you get them aligned to think in those the new constructs?
Jeffrey Immelt
So I would maybe answer a philosophical question with a philosophical answer, if I can. I would start with, I think if you own an industrial company, you always have to sit there and say, is this a hobby or is this real, right? And I have been around here long enough guys that it doesn’t hurt my feelings anymore, right? But I would say deep down inside, you want us to know what’s going to drive productivity in the future. And in the end if you own an industrial company, the space you need to own is productivity. It’s the way you make money. It’s the way we make money. So I would kind of start with, these things had nothing to do with anything other than somebody is going to do it. It changes the existence there on productivity and it better be us, we better be doing it. Now how do you do it? I think it’s always a combination of you’ve got to bring in talent from the outside and you have got to run it horizontally well. And I think one of the things that makes GE a little bit different is that most of the guys, people up here in the front row, they know how to run things vertically and they know how to run things horizontally or else you don’t survive in the company. So I would say, Cliff, deep down inside, although you don’t always know it, you want us to be on the leading edge of what’s going to drive productivity deep down inside. And I think in order to make – to give these things life before they get killed, if you do it in power and oil and gas and transportation, 8 separate times you are going to fail. What you have to do is once really well, give it a chance to breathe and that’s, I think, we’ve always been, whether it’s been Six Sigma or anything else. I have been here a long time guys. Let me tell you, if you put yourself in my shoes, out of the manufacturing makes a shit load more sense than Six Sigma did. It makes a – it’s inherently obvious. I was there the first day we did Six Sigma. It made no sense to me, right? Okay, Scott, very good.
Unidentified Analyst
Thanks. That was so brilliant, Cliff. I don’t know how to follow your shoes, but I finally understand additive manufacturing, thanks to you. But I am just joking. I like him. How does the 3% to 5% core growth and 100 basis points of margin tie together? Meaning, most of your peers are forecasting kind of 2%ish, maybe 3%, if they are lucky on core growth, so I can see some pushback there. But does that matter? Does that help you if growth is on the high-end or does that actually hurt you, because things like H turbines and things go in at such a low margin?
Jeffrey Immelt
Look, I think the way to think about it is that the place that’s best – got the spring load on growth rate down is actually services. So, you get a little bit richer margin with the service business. And it’s more, I would say, it’s more spring loaded as you sit there today and look at it. So I think if you kind of piece back and just go segment by segment on organic growth, power and wind, big H backlog, Alstom orders grew by 15% last year. So Alstom now goes organic. It basically had gone from a dormant time period to now really being having lots of good tailwind, let’s say, to it. So, you have got those two segments at really what I would say is kind of the high end even of what we normally would expect. Then you have got aviation and healthcare that are in pretty good cycles. Healthcare did maybe 4% organic this year, maybe 4% or 5% next year. Aviation will actually be a little bit better next year from an organic standpoint, because service is better and you are shipping a few more leaps. Oil and gas, we are kind of planning on being negative, but not quite as negative, but it’s off a lower base, so it doesn’t really create the same kind of tailwind it did this year. And then the transportation we are counting on the year. So, I think if you put the pieces together, you see why 3% to 5% makes sense. You have got mixed helping vis-à-vis service growing faster than equipment, right? And you have got a pretty good margin run-rate you are walking into. So I would have people just look at the pieces and I think if you grow pieces up, the organic makes more sense.
Unidentified Analyst
And then just as a follow-up, Slide 22 that the cash block. I didn’t kind of get it. Is it $10 billion including water and the proceeds from your asset sales as a total opportunity or is it 10 plus, including balance sheet?
Jeffrey Immelt
So I think Jeff, what you look at is you started with 30, right, if you go back the year and that was 20 of leverage and 10 that was just incremental cash available based from CFOA and things like that, that 30 became 34, including the $4 billion of dispositions. The 34, we have spent 24, let’s say, through acquisitions and incremental buyback and things like that and the unassigned is 10. Now you are getting more buyback. You are getting $8 billion more buyback. You are getting leap – you are getting Baker Hughes, LM acquisitions in that space and $10 billion is still unassigned, okay? Yes, yes. Steve?
Unidentified Analyst
Thanks. Jeff, I thought you would be at the Tech CEO Conference at Trump Tower today. Thanks for speaking with us.
Jeffrey Immelt
Thank you. Some days it pays to be in the industrial.
Unidentified Analyst
Yes, yes, good. So considering everything you have said about tax, etcetera today and some of these proposals, are there any – I am sure your teams are running around with many, many scenarios on how all of these potential things might play out, it’s too early to tell, etcetera. But are there scenarios that are kind of realistic that you could actually get an earnings headwind from the proposals that have been on the table because...
Jeffrey Immelt
Headwind or tailwind?
Unidentified Analyst
Headwind. Because it seems to like you are all tailwind.
Jeffrey Immelt
Steve, I just – I think the safest way for investors is just take Brady Bill, right. So you have got inside the house, get a Republican House, Republican Senate and Republican President and there is a fully drafted bill called the Brady Bill and just read it, and I would say pretty good for us. If you got that plus XM, those are pretty good scenarios for the company and then let’s see what happens. But I think the safest planning assumption, because there is just so much going on right now, is to kind of look at what already exists and say that’s probably some form of that’s likely what’s going to move.
Unidentified Analyst
And I mean I think on that same front, by my calculations, you guys must be close to $20 billion net exporter in the U.S.?
Jeffrey Immelt
Yes. No, we are – our position is, we are a big exporter and not a big importer.
Unidentified Analyst
Okay. And then just as a follow-up longer term maybe, given all the moves you have made this year in Siemens and I think it’s been great progress with you guys on machine-to-machine and digitization, but factory automation concerns me or I should say I still don’t get it, okay, so Siemens is approaching this from all the way from CAD/CAM, all the way through to additive, instrumentation, everything in between, I think you guys are trying to partner your way there, just help me understand what the kind of playbook is for GE in the factory automation vertical going forward?
Jeffrey Immelt
So the way that I would look at this Steve is, I would say, Siemens has a good programmable controller position on the factory floor, right. So if you breakdown the thread and look at that PLM, you look at insuring systems, we are not going to be a big player in PLM, right. We are kind of – we kind of target, I would say, service automation, we think we can own that space and pieces of what I would call factory floor MES, right. Pieces of MES, but we don’t have the natural equipment space in that area that Siemens does and ABB does and others, but there is plenty of partnering opportunities I think in the space where we can bring additional piece and somebody else can bring the assets.
Unidentified Analyst
You don’t…?
Jeffrey Immelt
Look, I think it’s just we are going to have to approach that industry in a different way than we approach the other things we do. And then we are long-additive, I come back and say there is going to be a new formation on the factory floor. We want to leapfrog what’s already there because there is no way to put yourself in the way back machine and become big in programmable control as you know. We kind of crossed that one in the 1980s. And so what we have to do is partner, have really good, what I would say have really good visualization and APM for the factory floor. So there is a ton of people that our competitors to Siemens and ABB to whom would be very attractive partners of ours on MES systems. Andrew?
Unidentified Analyst
Just to follow-on the theme of digitization, when I talk to investors, a lot of questions that I get, particularly from guys who invest in tech, how does a company that’s focused on cost participate in a growth industry that requires a lot of investment, like I will give you an example, my colleagues that have wrote note about Amazon saying what a great thing it is that they are going to miss EBITDA, because they can invest, so given the fact that you have this early industry that’s growing, you are one of the leaders, how do you manage this tension between the need to invest if needed and the need to do...?
Jeffrey Immelt
Look Andrew, I would say, things like cloud – the cloud technology, data centers, things like that, we are going to partner on most of that stuff. We are going to partner with Azure or others as it pertains to where, some of their investments have gone. I think when it comes to both machine learning, but most importantly APM, they are going to have to put themselves in a way back machine and get all the physics data on a jet engine over the last 20 years or 30 years. We bring a ton of competitive advantage as it pertains to the data, the way it gets sold to the customers and what’s called lifing on the use side. So infrastructure stuff, we are going to partner a lot on the infrastructure stuff. On the operating platform and the apps, I think we bring as much competitive advantage as anybody in the space. I think our customers feel the same way. Again, consumer Internet, enterprise Internet, industrial Internet, industrial Internet is going to operate significantly differently than enterprise or consumer and enterprise Internet has done. But you are going to see us build 32 data centers. I don’t think so. Jeffrey?
Jeffrey Sprague
Thanks Jeff. Two questions, so you have got $2.5 billion of gains financing $2.5 billion of restructuring, but we are hearing about $1 billion of additional cost-out, so what is all that restructuring yielding, where do those gains go, what’s the payback on what you are doing?
Jeffrey Immelt
So again, I would – maybe I will start and let Jeff hop up as well. But again I would say, there is going to be a ton of footprint reduction that goes into those gains or that the gains get applied to, there is going to be probably some organizational simplification work that we can do and that will be – we would expect – if you invest I think an incremental $1 billion, we would expect maybe half of that in the first year, something along those lines. So those will be the touch points I would give you. I don’t know Jeff, add…
Jeffrey Bornstein
So first piece is carryover projects and restructuring from this year that would net new talk about the $1 billion cut the incremental cost-out and the third is we talked about 800-ish, that neighborhood, for restructuring basically.
Jeffrey Sprague
And then I was also just wondering, just on the ramp to ‘18, I ask EPG actually was it relatively linear to get there and the comment that it was and clearly, it’s not, at the midpoint, we are going $0.15 and then $0.35, is there something that’s materially worst or difficult or more challenging in ‘17 than you were thinking back in May?
Jeffrey Immelt
No, I think it’s kind of – again, the way I would look at ‘18 versus ‘17, is you get pretty consistent EPS growth in the 2 years. The difference is in ‘18, the expectation is oil and gas is an adder and not a detractor, right. And so I think you were at the meeting last week, so you have got a pretty good rollout of how that, other than that, I would say the general operations are more or less the same year-after-year in ‘17 and ‘18, with the one difference with oil and gas being slightly better. That’s the main difference. Deane?
Deane Dray
Thank you. Jeff, I would be interested in hearing what inning you are in this mandate to simplify the organization and maybe what the gating factors might be, so industrial solutions announced today along with water, maybe a gating factor might be it’s hard to deploy the $2.5 billion in the gains, but how much more restructuring and what kind of pace and the sense of the timing?
Jeffrey Immelt
Look, I think it’s one of the things Deane – you never like over, over on portfolio just because life changes and the world changes. But I think if you think about what we have done with GE Capital and what we have done with what I would call industrial pieces, if you will, you now can sit and look at a fully formed oil and gas business, a very broad and deep power business, a very broad and deep healthcare business, a very great aviation business, very competitive transportation business. We don’t lack much and the discrete pieces, I think piece-by-piece, we have continued to take them out of the portfolio at times when it made sense. And then we just don’t have any shortage of good cost-out ideas. We just don’t have – I think again with Alstom, we have got another big rationalization opportunity. We are going to get most cost-out ideas as it pertains to Baker Hughes. There is no doubt that I would like to get the SG&A as a percentage of revenue to at least 12% here. We got slowed down by bringing Alstom in, and oil and gas is slowing down, but even with Alstom, I think SG&A as a percentage of revenue ought to be 12%, at least. So we still see lots of opportunities. But I don’t see big chunks coming out of the portfolio and I kind of like the way the company looks right now. Yes, Joe?
Joe Ritchie
Hey Jeff. Thanks. So you started the conversation off pretty optimistic about the U.S. and I am just wondering if you have seen anything or heard anything at the margin to help support that optimism, particularly because you got some pent-up investment, especially on the industrial side from a CapEx standpoint?
Jeffrey Immelt
Yes. Look, I mean I think, early days around, let’s say early days around onshore oil and gas for sure, right. And then you are seeing things firm around kind of car loadings and demand for electricity kind of slowly inching its way back up. But I think if you got a GDP that’s growing 3% plus, you are going to have a tremendous amount of pent-up demand that I think could be felt in the power business, could be felt in the oil and gas business, could be felt in the transportation business and throughout. So I just think that you have got – the economy was already strengthening kind of quarter-by-quarter and then I think you have got a sense with that tax reform and things like that, there might be more CapEx investment, because it has been lacking over the last 5 or 10 years.
Joe Ritchie
So, my one follow-up there. You made the point last week that your Tier 1 suppliers haven’t kept up with the pace of investment that you guys have made over the last several years. So does that mean if we do get a tick up, let’s say, GDP starts growing at 3% plus, do you have to vertically integrate to make sure you have the right components, the right supply chain in place in order to meet that?
Jeffrey Immelt
Again, I think we have got well-established supplier relationships, but I think, Joe, the way I would say to it is if you go back, let’s say, 15 years ago in aviation, right. We would take entire sections of an engine and give them to RSP partners or partners and they would design them and make them and things like that. Now, we own the designs. We own the capability, same way with wind power, same way with H wind turbine, same way with all that stuff. So the technical capability of GE vis-à-vis where it was 15 years ago and vis-à-vis our suppliers, is night and day. And I think from an investors’ standpoint that gives us optionality. That says we don’t necessarily have to, but we have the capability to take incremental margin should it be a good return as time goes on. Yes, yes? Chris?
Unidentified Analyst
Hi, Jeff. A little further on the steepness of the ramp to 2018, actually being in 2018. I understand oil and gas pivoting, also the slides on the two big acquisitions were very helpful and that just shows the math, the incremental EPS. But drilling into the Baker Hughes GE, you have got a $28 billion target for revenue in 2018. Consensus combines about $23 billion next year and now that you have ratified that, but that’s a $5 billion chunk, it’s quite a step function and there is a $0.06 pivot, minus 2 to plus 4. How critical is that kind of step function $5 billion, 20% growth in ‘18 and what are the drivers around that?
Jeffrey Immelt
Again, I think Chris we gave a pretty good outline of it last week, because you are really thinking ‘18, you are thinking about a combined business. Baker is much more of an early cycle business and so you are going to see tremendous, I would say, early-on leverage vis-à-vis that business as time goes on. So I think the way to think about this is between Baker Hughes and GE, we probably take – how much cost have you guys done, Lorenzo? $1.3 billion plus and Baker is another 600. So you basically have $2 billion of cost out. So your breakeven is down by $2 billion. So, it’s to the point, Chris, we are in almost any revenue increase you get, it’s going to go to the bottom line. And I think that’s the way, I would say, the Baker Hughes investors look at their company and when you think about GE oil and gas going forward, it’s really a blend of the two, so….
Unidentified Analyst
Is the revenue target more aspirational than the EPS for 2018?
Jeffrey Immelt
I just think go with – go with what we have given you. I am not here. I don’t want – I am not going to read through it. The only thing I would say conceptually about the combination of Baker Hughes and GE is, I think, the way we underwrote Alstom was basically 100% cost out synergy, no revenues, fundamentally, no revenues essentially. That was the appropriate way to underwrite Alstom. Now, what’s turned out to be true is we are going to hit the cost synergy and we are going to actually get incremental revenue out of Alstom, right? So that’s good. I think with Baker Hughes, we have underwritten a lot of cost out synergy, which we should hit and almost a little bit of revenue. Now, the way to take the combination of Baker Hughes and GE to really make it substantively appear as good as it can be we should take share. There is just no reason to think the combination of those two business given the way the industry is structured today, I can sit down and go through every oil and gas customer in the world, Saudi Aramco, Exxon, Chevron, I can go through each one and look at where the big now three sit and just go one by one by one by one. Here is what our potential is. So that’s – would that be ‘18? Probably not, but that’s going to happen at some point. Yes, John?
Unidentified Analyst
Thanks, Jeff. Can you hold your long-term tax rate at these low levels given that there is no longer capital and – but that may plug loopholes they may remove some of the interest deductibility? And then maybe for Jeff, how much of Baker and Alstom accretion $0.18 to $0.20 in the floor is taxed?
Jeffrey Immelt
So, we are making America great again here, John.
Unidentified Analyst
I am with you.
Jeffrey Immelt
So, I am thinking tax reform, I am thinking tax reform is a piece of that and I am all in, brother, let me tell you. I just – I don’t see – just based on everything that the new Secretary of Treasury said, President-elect has said, Speaker Ryan has said, I can never dictate the puts and takes, but I think there is if you are a net exporter, manufacturer, stuff like that, I think there is opportunities.
Jeffrey Bornstein
You want me to explain?
Jeffrey Immelt
The rest is up to you.
Jeffrey Bornstein
I think that we talked about [indiscernible] industrial actually in the next couple of years based on what we have done with Alstom, where the company is today, where we think we saw and I think that is sustainable in the next couple of years. It’s an anticipation of the way it’s laid out today that will change reasonably dramatic and there would be more permanence to how you would think about the rate long-term, right? At least as it relates to offshore earnings and your ability to repatriate them and what you can do with that fungible capital. So the Brady Bill is not in legislative language form yet. So the devil is in the details, but if you take it at face value today, as Jeff said, if you are a net exporter, it is a huge incentive and it’s accretive to the company.
Unidentified Analyst
And then just one more follow-up, the $0.18 to $0.20 in Alstom, is any – is that all ops and a little bit of tax or is any of that some of its very high coming back?
Jeffrey Bornstein
It’s the same tax we talked to you about last year or the year before? No change to how we talked about the tax synergies at Alstom.
Jeffrey Immelt
And the rest is operations, no balance sheet, zero, nothing, nothing. Nick?
Unidentified Analyst
You basically gave the tip to services driving your incremental growth on the organic side for sales. And I was just curious as to when you see the transformed GE Capital, which is basically now out of the businesses that their portfolios that they are looking at. When do you see the facilitation that they can coordinate with the IFIs and with sovereign wealth funds and insurance? When do you see that click in to actually step up virtually outside the U.S. in non-developed and emerging markets, step up your equipment sales on the industrial side?
Jeffrey Immelt
Jeff, maybe I will let you and then I will add in.
Jeffrey Bornstein
Rich is here too.
Jeffrey Immelt
It’s already started. So you got the energy financial services business is a big player with our power and renewals business. They are adding a ton of volume. A good percentage of our wind volume is either to change GE financing or is being arranged by GE financing. Jeff talked about earlier we operate without XM. We generally would use, I don’t know, $2.5 billion of XM financing. Our capital markets team, the GGO team, we replaced $2.5 billion of XM financing with $50 billion of ECA financing from around the world, okay. So they are already playing a big role. And Jeff had on the chart that he went through that they are enabling $10 plus billion of orders a year. That’s not always on the GE Capital balance sheet. As a matter of fact, we would like – as much as possible, we would like them to use other syndicate debt, syndicate equity and use other people’s capital to make these deals happen. But I think John would tell you when you get outside, you get in the growth reasons in the world and you are doing these big projects. The go, no-go is less of a technical decision many times and more can you put together the project financing to make the project go and that’s where we have come a long way and capital is playing a big part in that transformation.
Unidentified Analyst
So, would that factor in 2018 the bigger step up in terms of both your [indiscernible]
Jeffrey Bornstein
We think about it more in terms of how they are enhancing the organic growth rate on the industrial side and less about whether they will earn $0.01 more a share or not as a result of it.
Jeffrey Immelt
Again, I think a lot of the difference between ‘17 and ‘18 guys is really deals and buyback. You already see it. The $0.18 of underlying operations is really the only difference between ‘17 and ‘18 is what you believe on oil and gas. I mean, fundamentally, the run-rate is pretty healthy. Steve?
Unidentified Analyst
Thanks. What is the organic decline at oil and gas, is that single negative, is that the kind of the organic guide?
Jeffrey Immelt
I would say it will be...
Unidentified Analyst
At Baker Hughes…?
Jeffrey Immelt
All the numbers you saw are ex-Baker Hughes. I would say we are thinking about the revenue in oil and gas being flat to down, right, down single-digit kind of thing.
Unidentified Analyst
And organically?
Jeffrey Immelt
Yes. Did that sound right, guys?
Unidentified Analyst
And the $6 billion to $7 billion in GE Capital dividends, do you guys – I think that’s a little bit below what you guys had initially laid out, is there a reason why that cash is still...?
Jeffrey Immelt
So Steve, what I would say is that’s through ‘17, right. And then we think there is...
Unidentified Analyst
Some into ‘16, so it’s not...?
Jeffrey Immelt
Exactly, there will still be some more in ‘18. So we are not done at the end of ‘17. There is still a stub that will be trued up in ‘18.
Unidentified Analyst
Okay and then – so no change there. And then just lastly on this disclosure you guys had in your Q on the aviation accounting debate that’s going on out there, when will you kind of have further clarity on that and is there any update on that front or what kind of impact that would have?
Jeffrey Bornstein
So we are working through it, as you can imagine. Our service portfolio is many times larger than anybody else in the space. So we have done an enormous amount of work. We are not completely done yet. But I would expect by the time we issue the K to you all, we will have a lot more detail on there in terms of what we think the change – the Rev Rec change is going to have on the company when we adopt in 2018. So give it a month or two months here, we have got a little bit more work to do. But I think a lot of that will be known when we issue the K let’s say end of February or March.
Unidentified Analyst
And did that have any impact on the $2 or should we just think that as…?
Jeffrey Bornstein
There is no 6.06 changes in any of the framework that we have.
Jeffrey Immelt
We haven’t included tax reform or any stuff in there.
Unidentified Analyst
Okay. And one that just happened?
Jeffrey Immelt
But I want to back up on one thing. On the GE capital of $35 billion that we talked about, it could be $1 billion light by the time it’s all said and done, only because we exited the businesses earlier, right. So we didn’t have the earnings. So again, there will be more in ‘18 to finish it out, but at the end of the day, if it’s 34 instead of 35 or something like that, don’t be surprised. But it has nothing to do with the execution. We sold all the assets where we thought we could. It’s just a function of selling up assets.
Unidentified Analyst
If they wanted more capital in there something like that?
Jeffrey Bornstein
No, we are not putting more capital into GE Capital. I can assure you of that. I don’t want anybody to walk away to think we are running behind plan, we are running ahead of plan. We put the dividends into ‘16 to – we are actually several billion dollars ahead of the plan that we gave you. We are not behind the plan.
Unidentified Analyst
Okay. And then just one last quick one on the services productivity that you guys put out there, how did the team catch up the LTSA team catch up is kind of play into that, do you exclude those because they are kind of non-cash or did that kind of play into that whole bucket of...?
Jeffrey Bornstein
Look I think it all goes into the service Steve. But I think we always look at these as kind of like net beneficial to both the customers and us. So yes, Jim?
Unidentified Analyst
Jeff, you mentioned that the Alstom backlog was the biggest reason why cash is a little light of this year, so maybe you can talk about the risk as you go into 2017 into the Alstom backlog and obviously it’s more of a project related business, right, so you have gotten used to it now, you should be able to sort of execute better as you go forward, but maybe talk about that?
Jeffrey Immelt
Look, I would say, the way investors have to think about Alstom is it’s been broad – I would never say completely, but broadly de-risked, right. So you have had a year of strong operations, you had a long period of time of integration and I would look at Alstom kind of going forward as pretty clean, pretty de-risked, pretty much looks like any other GE business, as you think about the business going forward. That’s how I would think about where we go. We put no value in for the steam turbine business. We probably took Steve, couple of $3 billion of orders last year, something like that. A very little very value in for grid, it’s doing better. I just think there are pieces around the framework that are pretty attractive.
Unidentified Analyst
Got it. And then you said you expected services to grow significantly in ‘17 of 7%, but during in the third quarter, I think you were close to flat, maybe up a little bit in orders, right and so...?
Jeffrey Immelt
This will be up 3%.
Unidentified Analyst
Okay, right. And so as you look at ‘17, I mean what do oil and gas services do, are they going to be positive, you talked about healthcare and aviation, like are all these sort of visible gains because healthcare services have done a good job?
Jeffrey Immelt
Andy, I would go back and say what are your big horses in services are power and aviation. Both those businesses are going to be close to double-digit organic revenues, right, healthcare from flat to up 4. You just have a bunch of different parameters. If you think about services in power in the third quarter, lots of the AGPs get pushed into Q4, so you will see a pretty strong Q4 there. So again I think, my expectation is early cycle, the short cycle stuff tends to come back earliest in oil and gas. So I would expect oil and gas service orders to be flat to up even if total orders are down. That’s how it typically works. But I would think more about your two big horses on that one.
Unidentified Analyst
Yes. Jeff, with the $10 billion of capacity, it sounds like the message is no more big M&A between now and ‘18, is that kind of the message to make it nice and clear?
Jeffrey Immelt
Look, I always – you always have to see what happens in the industries and stuff like that, right. But look, to take – to do Alstom well took the entire company. To do Baker Hughes well, it’s not just Lorenzo, it takes the audit staff, it takes time and attention from the whole leadership team to do it well. So I just think from a capacity standpoint, doing multiple deals at a time doesn’t make a lot of sense. And then, I just – I think in many ways, oilfield services was a gap in the portfolio. I don’t think you look at GE today and say gosh, these guys are really lacking X. I just don’t – I don’t feel that way.
Unidentified Analyst
And then just on Alstom, it looks like it’s kind of a bit more back end loaded in the plan than perhaps you originally anticipated, so maybe just mark to market on what you see at Alstom and why ‘17 is a little bit light than ‘18?
Jeffrey Immelt
I think the way to think about it is we said roughly $0.05 this year that’s what we will do. I think we said $0.08 to $0.10 in ‘17, we will do $0.09 to $0.10 and we said $0.015 to $0.20 in ‘18, we are saying 18 to 20. So we are just saying it strengths then and be in pretty good position. Again, I think the difference in Alstom isn’t so much – so we had a year of restructuring in Europe, which as you guys know is not an easy thing to do. So when I sit here a year ago, I would have said that was the highest risk on the plan. I think we feel pretty good about how we have executed on that. What we had no context for a year ago was could we grow it. And if you sit here and say today, the answer to that is so much better than we had expected. A couple more, yes, Rob?
Unidentified Analyst
It sounds like you feel pretty good about some of these cost initiatives, particularly in horizontal IT, the $1 billion you are talking about, how much potential buffer is in the plan for some incremental cost take-out buckets. And maybe you can talk about that in the context of the confidence level from the $2 now, because clearly that’s been an open issue for investors?
Jeffrey Immelt
Again, I will make a couple of comments, Rob. First is we have almost twice what we need. So we have programmatically planned the lines up for more or less twice what we need. Steve began, didn’t even fully integrate, but the power business began the horizontal IT this year and got $40 million to $50 million of cost-out. So in some ways, we are kind of only scaling what we have already started in the power business. Compensation plans are all aligned vis-à-vis the plan. And look, when we sat here in April of ‘15, we didn’t really forecast the oil and gas business being what it is, but other businesses are better and new ideas that we can execute on. So we feel like this is the appropriate way to frame the company. I think if you basically say let’s walk ‘16 to ‘17, right, pretty straight forward economics from ‘16 to ‘17. So basically what we are counting on the plan is good execution of around the $0.03 to $0.05 organic growth and margin expansion. And then we have got a headwind of tax next year. So we are basically in the $1.60 to $1.70, we have a tax headwind that holds that down. And then when you think about ‘17 to ‘18, you get Alstom in full bloom, you get Baker in full bloom, you got buybacks all basically loaded in the plan. And then what you have to think about operations is really the execution around cost and does oil and gas begin the turnaround in ‘18. And again, you have got an oilfield service business while you are thinking your way through that.
Unidentified Analyst
And then just on the U.S. economy, if we see nominal GDP more mid single-digits, a couple of points in inflation, I mean, just how does that kind of – how do you ring-fence what that can mean for the $2 number? Could there be upside to the $2 number in that situation?
Jeffrey Immelt
Look, more or less, for the last more than a decade, we have been almost in an investment recession in the U.S., right? CapEx – so how did we survive? We survived by globalizing. We survived by selling planes and turbines and everything we make outside the United States, right? I think if you ever got like any kind of CapEx in the U.S., you just say, thank you, God. Just – I am low on oxygen, right. We sold 305 heavy duty gas turbines in the U.S. in 2001, 1 year. We have sold 230 the next 15 years combined, right? So just like dogpaddling would feel good. So I just think that’s something that investors don’t -- I don’t think GE is the only industrial that could make that claim, but the global markets have really been the difference – maybe one yes?
Unidentified Analyst
Thanks. Maybe during the free cash flow, it’s hard from the outside, I guess, to see some of the moving pieces, but maybe give us some color on a segment basis. Which segments are furthest away right now from that 80%, 85% threshold and maybe what the range is roughly on the free cash conversion by segment and which ones you think will drive the biggest outlook?
Jeffrey Immelt
Look, I would say our best student, but it’s easy, is John. And the guy that’s going to be the most improved player is Steve. Steve is going to be amazing [indiscernible] inventory and stuff like that, but we all have a bunch we can do, right? There is really, I think, a sense of – I think particularly in the inventory, there is a tremendous opportunity for improvement. A lot of this – again, as we have talked about business model, U.S., non-U.S., I think the – I think the need to get lead times down and things like that, Steve has gone from basically a largely North American customer set to a largely global customer set in 5 or 10 years. And the ability to get inventory back where it should be has these guys have globalized their supply chains, that’s where the opportunity is and that’s where the visibility hit. So we are not going to get to where we need to get to. We are not going to get to 95% unless we get $2 billion or $3 billion out of the inventory. And the good news for a company our size is that’s three quarters of a turn. It’s a turn, maybe. So we can do better.
Unidentified Analyst
Thanks. And then just lastly on Energy Connections, that’s been a very tough segment in various sort of forms in recent years. You have done a good sort of turnaround it looks like in healthcare this year albeit from a much higher base. What’s changing Energy Connections now? Is it leadership, cost-cutting, what…
Jeffrey Immelt
So, we have got – Russell runs it. I think with the – the way I would think about it is Power Conversion is a business we need to run well. Automation controls is central businesses for the industrial Internet. And then I think grid really represents how do we run it out of the acquisition and things like that? And the biggest opportunity and what Russell is really driving is how do we integrate – it’s a bunch of pieces and parts and little P&Ls, how do we run it like one streamline business, so more of a functional business and less of 17 different P&Ls and things like that. So I think that’s where some of the restructuring money anyhow will go to Russell as part of doing that. So should we maybe introduce cocktails or things like that, Matt. So thanks, everybody. It’s great to be with you and we will...
Operator
This concludes your conference call. Thank you for your participation today. You may now disconnect.
Copyright policy: All transcripts on this site are the copyright of Seeking Alpha. However, we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists, and are excited to contribute to the democratization of financial information on the Internet. (Until now investors have had to pay thousands of dollars in subscription fees for transcripts.) So our reproduction policy is as follows: You may quote up to 400 words of any transcript on the condition that you attribute the transcript to Seeking Alpha and either link to the original transcript or to www.SeekingAlpha.com. All other use is prohibited.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL, CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION, AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS. IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.