General Electric Company (NYSE:GE)
Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Industrials & EU Autos Conference
March 16, 2016 04:00 AM ET
Executives
Kieran Murphy - CEO, GE Life Sciences
Analysts
Andrew Obin - Bank of America/Merrill Lynch
Operator
Andrew Obin - Bank of America/Merrill Lynch
Welcome today to the BoA/ Merrill Lynch Global Industrial and EU Auto Conference. I am Andrew Obin; I am the US Multi-industrial analyst. And I think this morning’s presentation really puts the emphasis on the multi-industrial part, because we’re doing something that is different. We have Kieran Murphy, the CEO of GE Life Sciences business. And the reason we’re doing this is because I think it focuses investors on what’s right with GE.
This is the business most of you probably didn’t know exist inside GE. Just to help you by the way, there’s a copy of the report that we prepared ahead of this presentation focusing, doing indefinite GE Life Sciences business. Yes, if you look at the bounty of this feast, it’s quite valuable and it represents almost 10% of GE’s market cap based on our estimates, and it sort of demonstrates the kind of growth platform that GE has after going through a huge investment cycle.
So, because we have Kieran Murphy, the CEO of GE Life Sciences, because of that please focus your questions on the healthcare business, I think an interesting area would be reinvestment, supply chain, culture change, but that’s the focus but more a sector focused question. And with that I will let Kieran speak, and the way I like to do Q&A is just, I like it to be emailed unto me because this lets me structure the discussion whether it’s better and arrange for better flow, and 99% of the time all the questions get out. So thank you Kieran, thank you very much for being here.
Kieran Murphy
Thank you very much Andrew. Well good morning everybody, it’s a great pleasure to be invited here. Thank you to Bank of America/ Merrill Lynch. This morning I’m going to cover GE healthcare very briefly at the beginning and then talk you through in quite a lot of detail where we plan to take the Life Sciences business and why we are so incredibly energized by this space we are in and the asset we have.
First of all starting with GE Healthcare; this is a great GE business. It has scale, 18 billion in revenue, operating profit 2.9 billion, great cash generation. So it’s sort of [eligible] place within the GE stable. As with a lot of GE businesses it is a very strong franchise, very strong market position particularly in imaging where we are the clear leader. When I say imaging I mean the big diagnostic imaging equipment in hospitals.
We are a big player in the overseas market. So in China for example, we have enjoyed a huge growth rate over many years. We’ve got 5,000 employees; we have a huge footprint in terms of manufacturing, healthcare equipment. And of course in line with GE generally digital and data is a big part of the future, and I’ll talk a little bit more about that in a few minutes, and most importantly for me of course Life Sciences is a wonderful business and that’s what we’re going to talk about today.
Now one of the questions which gets raised from time to time is, is GE really committed to being in the healthcare space? I think there’s a few things that you need to take onboard. GE is a company that loves to do things at scale, want to tackle the big opportunities in the world like hardware provider, energy, water and of course healthcare. These are the big questions. It’s a $7 trillion market. Of course in some countries it’s a huge percent of GDP, it’s almost 20% in the US.
And if you look at the dynamics, we are plugged in to core long term growth because of the demographics, and of course (inaudible) diseases starting to pop up in the emerging markets, the incidence of cancer and diabetes in China, for example is a great example. What’s also interesting from a GE standpoint is that as GE tries to do business with emerging economies and particularly in Asia and the Middle East, the first question that any government wants to tackle is healthcare and energy. It’s absolutely fundamental for our needs. So it puts GE in a great position as we try to embark on huge infrastructure projects.
And that then brings to me to what we get from GE. And of course GE Healthcare borrows heavily from what is called the GE store which you may have heard quite a lot about recently. Effectively the GE infrastructure provides a technology base infrastructure for a digital, especially through a new platform we have called Predix, which is effectively outstanding analytics engine that can be applied to more if any industry.
We’ll talk about this a little bit more, as we go through the evolution of what we need to do in healthcare. The core industrial know-how at GE is critical to what we’re trying to do to improve the healthcare business, particularly in relation to cost [sold] and product sold and improving margins. I mentioned the fact that you get first-mover advantage in these countries if you have a healthcare business. So it’s very powerful from a brand standpoint that GE healthcare is in the stable.
So it’s an essential industry, it’s a great fit to GE. We borrow heavily from the GE store and contribute a lot by way of earnings and cash. And the portfolio is made up of three or four key components. We are a market leader in imaging with MR, CT and so on, huge [services] business, and then in the area of mobile diagnostics there’s a very wonderful ultrasound business which is changing the face of energy, a huge deal of course when it comes through again opening up markets in India and Africa, where rural health becomes critically important.
And if you think about the trend in the hospitals where, let’s face it, the goal of hospitals is to get people in and out of the critical care as quickly as it possibly can, mobile monitoring becomes a very huge deal and we have great technologies within the critical care area for monitoring, but also then mobile as people emerge to home-health becomes hugely important.
Digital of course is core to where we are going forward. We are a digital industrial company and we’re starting with a terrific base of data and just in terms of the sheer number of images we capture and the amount of data we handle, and then lastly of course our process which we want to spend time on today.
Our strategy is, first of all, I mean the outcome we want is to grow revenues we see solid single-digit revenue growth of this business that I think especially we go forward we’re looking to see double-digit earnings growth. That’s going to be based on some key pillars, margin expansion is a key piece of this, improving our sourcing, having several productivity in the factories, we call them brilliant factories in GE. We have models for doing this effectively, growing digital, growing the services business.
Of course, we have to be great at our core business that is of the technologies and how we put those in to the emerging market. I mentioned ultrasound in Africa is a great example, we’ve set up a whole new business called (inaudible) Solutions, which is aimed at India, South Asia, Africa, so that we can enable separate healthcare for a much broader population at lower cost.
In digital I mentioned before is a huge part, and then lastly I think cash and capital allocation. We have a good track record of generating great cash from this business. We’re very disciplined about the allocation of capital and we’ll refer to that as we go through the Life Sciences business as well in a few minutes.
Our gain short-term is to just improve this business. We have an awful lot we can squeeze out from there by good organic several operational actions, and that’s the task that John Flannery is on right now. John Flannery was appointed as CEO, just over a year ago and he is leading a whole culture of changes Andrew mentioned before. I think he is doing a fabulous job, setting out these clear strategic priorities and there’s a whole team aligned with him to deliver that.
So now I want to go on to the Life Sciences business. You need to keep in mind that this is primarily a consumables business. 80% of the revenues comes from consumables. And while you will see me referring to equipment and factories in here, equipment pulls along a huge revenue of consumable flow, which is incredibly important. Our business is split in to two, the top half of the page here is our what we call core imaging, it’s contrast agents, PET and SPECT for radio pharmaceutical. You can think of this as being a small pharmaceutical company with huge impact. I mean we treat 62 million patients last year with contrast agents, two patients every second. We’ve manufactured 2.9 million radio pharmaceutical doses. This is the business with scale, if you think of the complexity of delivering radio pharmaceutical that have such a short half-life. We have a very sophisticated operation around that.
The bottom half of the page is our biopharmaceutical business, where we are designing to all of the leading monoclonal antibodies and all the biopharmaceutical drugs. Seven of the top 10 drugs on sale in the world today are biopharmaceuticals treating anywhere from Rheumatoid Arthritis and the big cancer drugs. And you can see the customers we have here are one of the leading biopharmaceutical companies.
Here they are all partners, we are their partners in business. They are hugely dependent on us. If you look at our manufacturing infrastructure that is attached to those two pieces of business, you start to see that, first of all because we are designed in and from a regulatory standpoint, we were very sticky. But if you think about the manufacturing perception we have this huge barrier for entry. It would take billions of dollars to replicate what we have. So we have this terrific that is very profitable $4 billion in revenue. We generate more than 20% operating profit as a percent of sale, a highly cash generative and I’d say we’re in a great position.
We have a terrific product portfolio, and that’s of course the fundamental to a business like this where we are, our customers are so dependent on us. But it starts right at the beginning of our customers whether they be academic researchers or people at the bench in a pharmaceutical company. They need to use our equipment to help to purify and characterize and detect the potency of drugs, and we have some great ones like AKTA and Biacore that appear in every biopharmaceutical development lab in the world. And of course they bring a whole consumable stream behind. And I’m going to come back to the cell therapy piece later.
In bioprocessing we have what we call a complete solution, like start to finish. All the way from engineering a cell to produce protein to the finished product, and in particular downstream with chromatography we have a wonderful franchise, we have probably 90% markets here. We’ll talk more later about what we’ve done inorganically, but what you’ll see is that we’ve put pieces together to ensure that we are a start to finish provider. We wrap these with services and software solution so that it’s a complete portfolio. And I think we’ve done it very cleverly by doing Bolton acquisitions which have started very nicely and still are operating.
Then lastly in diagnostics; this is a huge flow business as I mentioned before, 1.6 billion in revenue. We’ve got 35% market share of contrast media globally, we’ve got about 60% market share on contrast agents in the US. We have this wonderful SPECT and PET imaging franchise with products for cardiology, oncology and neurology, and I think neurology is going to become a key part of this in the future for an obvious reasons, if you can use something like PET agents to diagnose Alzheimer’s you are in a much better position with other agents, and we have just recently had a PET imaging agent for Alzheimer’s approved.
So, this is just a wonderful product portfolio which had it’s sort of base with the Amersham acquisitions, some of you may remember that from 9 years ago 2004, we’ve done some very successful bolt-ons and I think as well as that we really leverage GE very well. We’ve got wonderful technologies from the global research center, we’ve given this a global commercial footprint and we are now bolting on software and analytics which makes it - our position in GE is extremely strong.
So, I want to spend a little bit of time on biopharmaceuticals because as Andrew pointed out in his note as well, this is just a key part of this business. And I want to think about our position in biopharmaceuticals, keep two words in mind really. One is productivity and one is capacity, because we’ve tried productivity for our customers and we’re creating capacity for the future.
Now the reason this is so important is that the trend for the growth of biopharmaceutical is extremely strong in the top right hand corner of the chart. We’re plugged in to a growth rate of somewhere between 10% and 15% for the next 10 years with these products. Why? Because of course biopharmaceutical is so much more affective.
Now the good news for us is they are extremely difficult in manufacturing. And if you look at the comparison and the size of something like Prozac, which is traditionally made, small molecule like chemical sensitive compared to a biopharmaceutical or vaccine. These are huge complex molecules that are in fact manufactured by cell and are fermented, the cell have to be engineered to produce the right protein, the have to be fed and then you have to filter out the final product, and that’s our business.
So I mentioned before the reason that this is growing so well is that these products are highly effective, and so what you’re seeing as we move towards an era of precision medicine is that the precision of diagnosis means that the target that you’re now chasing whether it be for cancer or some other treatment, you’re dealing with very precise targets and that’s the beauty of biopharmaceuticals that they can be very specific.
So, we are in this situation where I think it was 8 drugs got approved by the FDA last year, we’ve designed in to all of those. We have our assemblers coming along, which are of course effectively copies of these huge blockbuster drugs that are there already. This is one of the big impact on the world and we play a major part in that.
And this brings me to the point of productivity, because as we set to talk about precision medicine, the multi-billion dollar drugs we have today that are made - if you look at the top left, they are made in 20,000 liter bioreactors. In the future the precision drugs are going to get made in smaller facilities using disposable technologies. So we’re willing to play our sector. We were an early mover here, so we have a great portfolio and disposable technologies using flexible things they’ll use. These are factories and plastics effectively, and which means that you can produce in small batches at lower costs and I’ll go in to this in a few minutes.
From a productivity standpoint in that setting if you can do a better job at engineering the cell, growing the cell, more efficient extraction and purification, we get much higher yield, and that’s why I think we’ve been successful with our customers, and we are proven partner in delivering that productivity and that’s driven our sales growth historically to 11% compound annual growth rate. We had terrific growth rate in 2015, and we feel that we can continue at a strong double-digit growth forward.
We plan to replicate all of our wavelength and bioprocessing in the cell therapy space, and I’ll come back to this a little bit later. I think it’s going to be a key part of the growth story in the future. So this is a great GE business. We provide hardware, huge consumable floor and services. And I think in the future of data and cell business is going to be a major piece of this product over the [history].
Now there’s a video playing on the top left hand corner here or on the bottom left hand corner, which shows our new KUBio facility first of all being manufactured. It was in fact manufactured in Germany in modules and got delivered to China and in eight days [Technical Difficulty] factory. On the 8th of September and we had mechanical completion at the end of February. This is a [Technical Difficulty], and we’re the only player that can provide this.
It changes the paradigm for creation of capacity from here on, and so we see a situation where in the future in fact global biopharmaceutical manufacture [Technical Difficulty] linked of course [Technical Difficulty] the Predix platform and we see ourselves in a position [Technical Difficulty] around the world. We’re still the first one and the second one is just [Technical Difficulty] as we go through the next couple of months.
Inside those factories there’s something called FlexFactory and I’ll come back to this in a couple of minutes. FlexFactory is an amazing technology [Technical Difficulty] of a normal facility. 80% [Technical Difficulty] for managing, so 80% in this quarter is a big deal (inaudible) 35% less CO2, as of course much [Technical Difficulty] much more easily by [Technical Difficulty] bring back in to our recurring revenue stream. So it’s a wonderful business model of again hardware and software.
So I mentioned FlexFactory, I think one of the things we have done very successfully is we’ve been very disciplined [Technical Difficulty] carefully selected the acquisitions we were going to make in this business [Technical Difficulty] pipeline we have today [Technical Difficulty]. So we are [Technical Difficulty] we bought high quality and we paid $1 billion [Technical Difficulty] similar stories. Well we’ve [Technical Difficulty] which was my heritage we bought in 2008 has turned out to be a very strong part of the franchise.
Our track record in acquisitions is based on being disciplined on (inaudible). You know that’s GE at its absolute best. I think we will continue to look for opportunities and strengthen the portfolio. And so then I’ll close up by talking a little bit about cell therapy. I don’t know how much of you guys follow cell therapy, but this is a game changer in a sense because, sometimes called regenerative medication [Technical Difficulty].
So the diagram on the left hand side, just very quickly shows in order to make immunotherapy happen, you have to extract cells from the body, reprogram T-cell to attack the cancer. So by reprograming a specific [Technical Difficulty] magic box which he is the key part that gets injected back in to the body and as a result the clinical results from this have been truly phenomenal. So for blood based cancers, the products and clinical trials (inaudible).
Cell therapy pipeline that’s on the page here, you’ll see that there are huge number of products in phase 2 and that reminds me of where we were with biopharmaceuticals back in the early 2000s. I think over the next 10 years, we’re going to see a big increase in interest and sales and opportunities for cell therapy. And [Technical Difficulty] in relation to this pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies are very focused on intellectual property and developing the technology. This is will get delivered to hospitals. So there’s only one company I know of that engages with hospitals and engages with the pharma industry and that’s GE.
We are perfectly positioned to capitalize on this. Not just that, but also if you look at the challenges that this industry is facing, you can imagine when it comes to patient specific treatment, this can be lawfully [Technical Difficulty] great systems, great analytics, great standardization and industrialization and that’s us, that’s our core strength. So I think we are in a great position to establish ourselves as an industry leader here.
To summarizes, we are a critical component of the whole biopharmaceutical industry. This is locked in to a great growth rate going forward. We have great biopharmaceutical companies as customers. We create capacity around the world and doing things like that at scale [Technical Difficulty] geographies that plays to GE’s strength. Being able to finance [Technical Difficulty] well managed risk, this is the core competence of the corporation and I think we are in a great position to leverage to technologies and those competencies [Technical Difficulty] system.
We have wonderful growth opportunities, you can see that from the technologies we have, our product position by building in software, services, analytics. We’re locked in to a terrific growth rate. Our business model and the discipline with which we run the business means that we continue to be a great contributor to GE, which I think was the theme that Andrew raised. And so we feel great, we feel great about this business. I have a fantastic team. As I have run businesses for many, many years, this is the best business I’ve ever been around, because of its impact on the world and the fact that it’s just a wonderful business from every metric that I can think of, as well as I think solving issues for patients which would be very difficult if we weren’t around.
So thank you, I look forward to discussing this more and having some questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Q - Andrew Obin - Bank of America/Merrill Lynch
When we were writing this report, and it would be impossible without Derik de Bruin my Life Science analyst, because all I figured out from this is that it’s actually making five drugs like Bruin beer. It’s similar process and you’re moving from these big baths to sort of Kraft beer. This is an industrial guy sort of simplifying something very complex.
But you know what struck us when we were doing and apparently this KUBio thing is very, very unique. So I have two questions, could you explain to us why is it so important (inaudible) to be able to package and pre-certify this factory in the west and what advantage does it give in putting this capacity? Why is it so important when you put this capacity in the emerging market (inaudible)? It sort of take half the time to build, because its half the cost. Why would anybody ever buy a traditional factory? And as far as I understand, you’re quite a bit ahead of your competition with this module manufacturing process. So --.
Kieran Murphy
First of all we’re well ahead of the competition, so we own the gaming town at the moment. And I think given the way we’ve structured this and the uniqueness of the FlexFactory, I think we’re going to continue in that way. The question about why would you do anything different is an interesting one, and I guess it depends on your starting point.
So if you’re Samsung, which is a huge customer for us. Samsung in Korea has built huge stainless steel facilities, their view is that they will be a high volume manufacturer of bio assemblers and perhaps proprietary drugs. It effects on volume, so we’re going to make products at huge volume, low cost, and if that works and you’re Samsung and you got a great balance sheet, you can play that game.
But for most companies, for most biopharmaceutical companies, even big pharma companies, they don’t want to take that level of risk in a market like China, also the Middle East or Brazil or Russia. What they want to do is have the optionality of saying, so there’re two points on this really, one is the whole point of optionality. Am I going to bet ranch by spending 2 billion on a factory or i.e. conversely $1 billion on a factory or can I take my bet for 80 million? You would go 80 million every time, because you say well, I can put 80 million on the ground, if it has to work I can actually build on more modules and honestly that’s why right now we have huge traction with our customers on this topic. It’s risk and optionality is a key part of this.
Also if you think about the average biopharmaceutical company and for those of you in the audience who are involved in the venture capital or private equity, the backing of biopharmaceutical companies, you know that when a drug is in phase 3, you face a huge choice, do I go to a manufacturer contract and loose the load of margin, do I create a small amount of capacity to just get me through the clinical trial.
If you’re successful and you have a blockbuster on your hand and you actually can manufacture. You need technology like this to get you around as quickly as possible, and so it’s that optionality that’s a key driver here. Does that answer your question?
Andrew Obin - Bank of America/Merrill Lynch
Sure. But also in terms of the facility in China you’re pre-certifying in Germany, can you just touch on that.
Kieran Murphy
There are two aspects there; there’s a regulatory piece and a sheer skill thing. So from a skill point of view, and I have built factories in China myself prior to this life. There’s a risk just in terms of the skill available to create biopharmaceutical standard facilities that are for those of you who are not in the industry. The air handling, standard with a finish has to be extremely high, and so to be able to create that in a German facility where you are guaranteed that you’re going to have that quality of finish pre-certified, sort of, design that we are handling, this is a huge deal. And then of course one of our offerings is that in parallel with the construction versatility we actually make, we actually develop some of the processes in our facilities in the US, so that as soon as the factory is ready to go the (inaudible) the filing attached to that effectively as a result will [drug] master file, that’s done in parallel with the creation of the facility. So the timeline is shrunk completely.
Andrew Obin - Bank of America/Merrill Lynch
And when you make these drugs the process gets (inaudible) the molecule gets certified right? The whole (inaudible) certified.
Kieran Murphy
It’s a great point. For biopharmaceutical for cell therapy the process is the product, because you can’t define, I’m going to take this chemical, and I’m going to take that chemical and I’m going to end up with that chemical. The process of programing a cell, feeding that cell and giving it all the steps of purification that’s all written in to the regulatory filings, and so that’s why we have this recurring revenue stream as once you’re designed in changing in extremely expensive and high risk.
Andrew Obin - Bank of America/Merrill Lynch
So let’s take question in terms of - so how do you manage, given that’s it’s a pretty disruptive technology, and you listed all the key pharma companies, your key customers that the whole industry is moving to sort of generic base. So how do you maintain the relationship given that you guys are going to enable the competition for all your key customers?
Kieran Murphy
All of - I would say most of the big pharmaceutical companies look at this as a double edged sword. They know that the proprietary drugs that are on sale in the US today, they can’t sell those drugs to someone like China at those prices. They won’t want to sell a proprietary drug at a very low price, and so, Novartis and Sandoz being probably the best examples. They have effectively generic strategies, they have bio-similar strategies and I’m not going to go in to the details in that, but you won’t be surprised to hear that pharma is a key player in this game, because they have a better understanding of how to make bio-assemblers than anybody else. They are skilled in the art, and this is not something that you can learn at university, you have to learn this in a lab. There’s a lot of process knowledge that’s only developed through a lot of experience.
Andrew Obin - Bank of America/Merrill Lynch
But there was a question about key competitors and competitive dynamics, so I’ll just ask you, there’s page 7 Kieran and this report actually through in a lot of detail. But who are your key competitors, particular on modular who else has this modular technology?
Kieran Murphy
At a small level [Satori] probably has similar technologies. Merck Millipore I think are our key competitor. Merck Darmstadt, the German Merck bought a series of businesses starting with Millipore and Sigma-Aldrich paid huge multiples for those businesses. So they have a very sound portfolio and there’s no doubt which we consider them with a huge degree of respect. We need one another actually. Merck Millipore supply us with some component, we supply Millipore with some components, so I think we have a good recoil system. Danaher just bought Pall and so from a hardware point of view, it’s a much narrower offering, but Danaher now start to become more serious as a competitor as well.
Andrew Obin - Bank of America/Merrill Lynch
So you’re a little bit different from the last of the GE, so A, how do you get capital and B, with all the changes taking place in GE, how does that change help you around the business say today?
Kieran Murphy
From a capital standpoint when you produce numbers like we do, it’s easy. So the Chairman loves his business, I think if you saw that we’ve done acquisitions like iClone, we can get these done very quickly. So at no point have we really wanted to do something and we couldn’t do it. We’ve walked away from quite a few deals, because we just felt the price was just too high. And I think there’s a discipline that’s been healthy for us. We are spending $150 million this year improving our own manufacturing capacity in places like Sweden, Norway and (inaudible) and China. So we have no problem getting access to capital.
Andrew Obin - Bank of America/Merrill Lynch
Are you impacted by - a big part of GE Healthcare presentation was the swinging in focus of the supply chain or renewed focus cost. How does that impact your business?
Kieran Murphy
Only in a good way, to be honest, because one of the things John Flannery has done is brought in some new players and new supply chain leader, Chuck. He was in oil and gas and aviation. He is just a fantastic supply chain leader. And the disciplines he’s bringing to supply chain, I think the way in which he works, he is able to teach us new things. This is all positive.
I guess piece of your question is, is there a distraction effect? Honestly there isn’t. We are sufficiently independent as a team and as a business, and the people who’ve worked for me, we’ve all been together for quite a few years now and this is a great machine working while we’ve fantastic alignment and we don’t get distracted.
Q - Andrew Obin - Bank of America/Merrill Lynch
Well, we are out of time on this note, as I tell, we did this report. Where’s Derik de Bruin, take a look at it. Derik knows the industry really well, was really surprised what’s inside GE Life Sciences, because it’s not very transparent from the outside and we’re very lucky to have Kieran here telling us about it. Thank you so much.
Kieran Murphy
Thank you very much.
Copyright policy: All transcripts on this site are the copyright of Seeking Alpha. However, we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists, and are excited to contribute to the democratization of financial information on the Internet. (Until now investors have had to pay thousands of dollars in subscription fees for transcripts.) So our reproduction policy is as follows: You may quote up to 400 words of any transcript on the condition that you attribute the transcript to Seeking Alpha and either link to the original transcript or to www.SeekingAlpha.com. All other use is prohibited.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL, CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION, AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS. IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.