General Electric Co. (NYSE:GE)
GE Digital Investor Meeting
June 23, 2016 11:00 ET
Executives
Jeffrey Bornstein - SVP & CFO
Bill Ruh - CEO, GE Digital; SVP & Chief Digital Officer
Khozema Shipchandler - VP & CFO, GE Digital
Harel Kodesh - VP, Predix & Chief Technology Officer, GE Digital
Kate Johnson - Chief Commercial Officer, GE Digital
Jim Fowler - VP & Chief Investment Officer
Jennifer Waldo - Senior HR Manager, GE Digital
Ganesh Bell - Chief Digital Officer, Power
Azeez Mohammed - VP, Services MEA, GE Power
Charles Koontz - Chief Digital Officer, GE Healthcare
Seth Bodnar - Chief Digital Officer, GE Transportation
Kevin McAllister - VP, Services, GE Aviation
Jeff Connelly - VP, Global Supply Chain, GE Power
Maryrose Sylvester - President & CEO, Current
Analysts
Scott Reed Davis - Barclays Capital
Jeffrey Bornstein
Good morning. Thank you for coming out here to --- here our story around the transformation that is GE Industrial. I hope we're going to spend about three hours and then do some Q&A and we're going to do a really deep dive here on how we think about the industry and particularly, Predix, as an operating platform for the industrial.
I just want to start with a couple of notions here. First, the company has been under an enormous transformation over the last three or four years. Really along three axes; one is portfolio transformation. So we previously talked about remake [ph] portfolio to Deep Technology, our focus on customers and solutions. And we talked -- then we take the number of bold actions. One is we just executed the appliance transaction; a few weeks ago I'll go through some of the details around that in a moment.
The GE Capital restructuring significantly reducing our financial service footprint using the capital we free up as part of that to reduce our share account return now back to shareholders. The team has done a phenomenal job for at least a year ahead of where we are and I'll give you at the end of it a brief update on that. And then the closure and the integration of [indiscernible] which we think is going to be hugely value creative for the company, particularly in our grade of power and water businesses, some degree of renewables business, and we feel really good about the cost synergies that we've committed to all of you and we are increasingly more confident about how we think about the growth synergies at the platform in combination with our own platforms that technology can create overtime.
The second action has really been a cultural transformation of the company. We've talked a lot about simplification, we're not going to cover that today but how do you get a 130-year old company, $140 billion of revenue operating in 180 countries to operate with the speed of sense of urgency that a much smaller company operates at, and Digital is a piece of that as well. And so we've been very focused on simplification, pushing down authorities of the company, false decision making etcetera, along with fast works and how we think about development at the speed with which we do it, the no-go decision that we do in there.
And then lastly, compensation is really aligning outcomes with behavior rethinking how we compensate people and really trying to disjoint, distinguish outstanding performance and how people get remunerated.
The third is the Digital Industrial Transformation. So we think we are positioned very well for this, we think this is the world's next source of productivity going forward and we think asset performance, asset performance management is a killer app enabled by Predix. And that's we're going to talk to you about today and we're going to approach it from two perspectives; one is the horizontal perspective and that's the platform itself, the operating system itself, Predix. And what we're building there, what the technology stack looks like, what it looks like edged to Cloud, with the embedded microservices that enable people to develop real-time solutions on the platform and, most importantly, they deliver differentiated outcomes.
So at the end of all of this, if you don't have a plant that's more efficient, that uses less input to get the same output or same input and more output, you're really not accomplishing anything. But we think and we're going to tell you some stories today of real customers using Predix in applications on profit [ph], well we are differentiating the outcomes for these customers in creating enormous amounts of value which we expect we can share. That's the power of the GE story. We don't -- not one of our individual businesses on their own could ever afford to invest in what Predix is, the operating system. We'll invest over $1 billion for sharing those efforts which is an enormous commitment to the space. But we'll build those capabilities that allows every one of our businesses to leverage that platform and then drive it vertically within their own markets or own customer sets through applications that really differentiate, not just our products but the outcomes our customers experience operating their businesses and their systems.
So this is a page that we've shared with you before. We're not new to digital per se, the digital industrial and the operating system for the world is a much bigger swing. But in 2015, we had about $5 billion of revenue in software applications, hardware-software enabled upgrades, etcetera and we believe in 2016 we're going to grow that to more than $6 billion and by 2020, we believe we'll grow that to something that looks like $15 billion. So the way I would describe that, we'd expect that $6 billion to grow to $10 billion or $11 billion in 2020. Additional applications, more Predix space than where we've been historically, additional upgrades, and this is delivering to our service franchise, differentiated outcomes to our customers. We feel really good about it, and you're going to see a lot of examples of those specific things today.
We're going to deliver as we re-architect our own company along Predix, which we call the Digital Thread, from design to services. And Jim Fowler is going to take you through the components of the Digital Thread and what it means to us. We're going to generate, we think, on a run-rate basis, at least $1 billion of productivity in 2020 associated with deploying Predix in our own shop and against our own assets and systems. And then last piece is Predix operating system, which in 2020 we think will be $4 billion of revenue and extraordinarily attractive margins. And that's both deploying Predix operating system to our customer base but also deploying Predix to people outside our traditional operating base. And Kate's going to show you some examples today of other companies that are taking up Predix and deploying it in their own operations to drive differentiated value.
So this is not unique in terms of how we thought about our service franchise overtime. If you go back to the early 80s, we were very much focused on growing the installed base, launching new products, putting hardware -- mostly a break in fixed model, get products in the field, figure out how to improve them overtime, etcetera. In the 90s, we actually for the first time started investing in technology in our services platforms. Taking new technology that was developed in new-generation products, and moving that technology back into the installed base to try to differentiate the performance for our customers, reduce the cost of ownership, and improve the actual asset performance. And then in the mid-90s, we created what we call a long-term service agreement, today we call it CSA, which was really a breakthrough in industrial services, where we changed the risk paradigm with our customers, and we entered into long-term service agreements where we bore some of the risk associated with the cost of ownership of those engines and it also gave us an opportunity to create enormous amount of productivity, not just for our customers but for ourselves and the profitability of these businesses has grown year-in and year-out for the better part of 15 years as a result of it.
And today we stand here with $230 billion of backlog in our service business which represents an enormous opportunity to drive and create even incremental value from here, since we've actually realized those revenues overtime. The Digital Industrial is just the next evolution in this process, and the next evolution in the enhancement of our services franchise. We think the point Predix, the analytical insight that we'll get on our installed base; you will see some of this with Kevin McAllister today in our jet engine. The insights we're getting into asset performance, not for our fleet, but for a serial number. What do we know about that jet engine, how it's performing, how it was configured, how we ought to treat that jet engine in terms of coming off of service, and when it comes off of service what exactly we're going to do to that jet engine when it hits the shop?
So a completely different paradigm mix, a completely different way of thinking about how we deliver both the service to customers but the cost we incur to do that. And this is where the service franchise has been over the last 15 years. In 2000, we had an $18 billion service franchise, profitable; it's grown almost $50 billion in 2015, it's on average grown 7% of profit a year over that period of time, it's advantaged by the success of our new product introductions. We have a growing installed base and we think that Predix in the industrial internet, the applications associated, it's going to change the curve on what our services growth is going to look like into the future. We think we're going to grow faster, we think we're going to be more profitable as a result of the analytic capability we're going to derive against our installed base and deliver for customers.
So why do we care about this? So we think in 2020 the industrial internet is going to be about $225 billion market. And just to put that in context, today the consumer internet's about $170 billion, $180 billion market. The enterprise market, I think SAP or Oracle is about a $200 billion market. So we think in 2020, that's not that far away, the industrial internet will already represent a bigger opportunity than what the consumer internet demand as it developed over the last 10 years or the enterprise spaces has been over the last 15 years.
Now some think that's grossly underestimated. McKinsey would say by 2025 it's $11 trillion. They are a little broader definition, that's Internet of Things as opposed to the industrial internet. Whatever the right number is, it's going to be massively transformative for industry globally, and we're going to play a big piece of that. We think there is enormous value creation here for customers; again it's all about outcomes. If we create differentiated outcomes that enhance the franchise value of our customers, they get more output, more up time, less down time, real economic value creation, and we can participate in that value creation in a big way. And it's going to change massively how we run our own company, our own factories, the insights we get on how we build product, design product, a combination with advanced manufacturing and 3D printing, it's going to massively change both the design envelope of what we design and how we manufacture products and how we deliver service execution on a go-forward basis.
And I think that if we execute on all this, and Predix ends up being everything we think it can be, it's going to change the relationship with our customers. I think the stickiness, the intimacy that we have with our customers is only going to grow enormously because we're going to be massively invested in the outcome of their own franchise. We're going to measure success based on them actually realizing incremental differentiated economic value creation.
So why GE? Well, first of all, we've approached Predix and predictivity from an industrial perspective. We didn't approach it from a Cloud-based consumer internet view or an enterprise view, we very much built the architecture around Predix, its capabilities, its microservices, solving industrial issues, solving asset performance, so it's a very unique perspective, one. Two, you've got to have a deep domain in the markets you play in, really deep domain, and you need to understand the physics associated with the machines themselves; critically, critically important. And you've got to have the right technology stack. Harel's going to take you through the technology stack of Predix, a lot of this activity is going to happen at the edge, it's going to happen with a machine that's operative or is actually operating.
If you're running the grid in New York City, if you're flying an airplane, you can't take data from the machine, send it to our cloud, run a bunch of analytics/algorithms through machine learning, all that stuff, and then send an answer back to the machine. At that point, the plane is on the ground and the grid has shut down the whole East Coast. This needs to happen in a micro-service. So the Compute Technology, the Algorithm Technology, the Deep Machine Learning Technology, a lot of that is going to actually happen at the edge as a completely different technology stack than what you see today in the consumer internet, the completely different technology which you see in ERP and enterprise. And I think we've figured that out and we think that's a huge advantage.
And then Cyber Security is obviously, absolutely critical, and Harel will talk more about that. We didn't just start this, we've been at this since 2011. Every day we get more confident about what we're doing. Every day we become more convinced that this is absolutely what's going to change the world. For the last 15 to 20 years, up until 2011, the world enjoyed about 4% productivity growth, and that's the source of 3+% global GDP, if you do the math. Since 2011, the worlds enjoyed 1% productivity growth and so the world should be surprised when we only see 2%, frankly better than 2% world GDP growth. This is going to be the next source of industrial productivity, productivity generally, that's going to drive global growth and we absolutely believe that.
So with that I'm going to turn it over to Bill, we're going to talk about the horizontal first, the platform that we're leveraging across all our businesses and for the world. And then we will do a deep dug in a number of the businesses on what the vertical application with real customers' looks like and how we're actually starting to change the game. Bill?
Bill Ruh
Thank you, Jeff. So great to see some of you again, and to meet some of the rest of you. So I joined GE five years ago, I came from Cisco, I worked at a number of tech firms over my career; big and small, and I viewed this as probably the next big thing, and I think over the last five years we have done a tremendous amount to really build out and prove out that this truly is starting to take hold in the world today.
As Jeff pointed out, this productivity thing is really important as it is an indicator of a number of things. The first indicator is, look, industrial companies are going to have to do something; you can't just sort of wait it out. If your strategy is that growth of the world's economy is going to turn this around, I think we live in a slow growth world that can't be it. So you really have to look to two things; you have to look to the idea that you're either going to make yourself more efficient, or you're going to use the technology to deliver new capability your customers and open up either adjacencies or expand your market. And we think that when you look at it, that's what people are going to have to do in the industrial world for the next decade.
And when you think about it how are they going to do it is extraordinarily important because process and the ability to improve process is run its course, if it hadn't we would have seen greater productivity. The second thing is the technologies we've been using for the last decade to automate are no longer good enough to get you to where you have to go. The second thing that's important is Digital Technology has gotten to a point, which is actually enabling this in a new way. So if you think about where technologies like machine connectivity are at today, where we see the idea that machine learning AI coupled with physics-based modeling have gotten to a point that are very interesting. Moore's Law has brought the hardware to the point where we can do things in software we couldn't do a decade ago. So we are at a point where this new technology is going to allow us to do things we never did before. And we think the center point of this, this is idea of the Digital Twin which will -- you'll hear a lot about today.
And the idea of Digital Twin is simply this; you learn a lot about AI and machine learning today in the world, I hear everybody talking about that, and we actually see that is a very important part of what we will deliver to our customers, and what that does is it tells you everything that's happened in the past, and gives insight to what it might happen again. But we also know the power of physics-based modeling which we've been doing for multiple decades in most industrial firms have been as well, that when you look at what physics-based modeling does, it actually tells you what is going to happen in the future, which artificial intelligence does not. So the idea that we can couple looking at the past for patterns of behavior coupled with looking into the future and looking at thousands or even millions of options to find the best one to accomplish your goal and combine those two, we think it's going to be the center point of value in the digital world.
Now the other thing that's important on this slide, and the reason I'm spending a lot of time if you walked away with one slide in mind I think it's this. There is this opportunity and the technology is here but more importantly, for the principals there, because these principles are what we are doing, it is how we view the world and why we win. And most of things like it's not about selling technology which you're going to hear from our team today is that we focus not on selling some new technology but I'm delivering outcomes, and that's what we sell and you see more on that. The second thing is that you we're going to talk about why the consumer internet and IOT is different than the industrial internet. And the technology is there, are quite advanced in terms of need to process at the edge, and Jeff alluded to this as well, we're going to talk a lot more about the edge. Sometimes people think industrial companies can't bring in the talent, I will tell you this that I think when you think about talent, talent goes to the best ideas and the next thing and I think this is the next big thing. And so there is an ability for industrial companies to attract talent to do this.
We also see the idea that people with assets are in the best position to capture the value because they can determine what kind of data comes out, and data is the one right value, it determines what kind of insights you're going to get from your analytics and your physics. If you're really going to be in this game you've got to be committed to building your own digital content, not just your own machines but your own digital content, the best industrial companies in the future will be doing this. You have to reform your IT, you have to bring IT into the fold, you have to make it part and parcel of your whole digital capability, and we've done that. You have to really think about simplifying your culture, you bureaucracy, because if you are going to attract talent, talent is going to come -- want to come to places that feels a little more fast pace and the ability to move fast is the key element of what we have had to do to develop the kind of company the digital industrial company we want to be.
And the last thing as we believe that this is a game for industrials to play, and I think the reason we do is industrials trust each other, I mean some people might say, why would industrials buy from other industrials? But the fact is industrials that are buying from other industrials for multiple decades and generations, we all sell to each other, we all interact with each other today, so this is nothing new. So when you look at it these are at the center point of why we think we can be the leading digital industrial, why we can win with predicts and why we're making this investment.
Now I just want to take you through a few ever thoughts to level set you on where we're going but the fact is the rest of the presenters are going to take you through the details and the proof points behind everything I'm going to talk about. What we've learned in the last five years, because five years ago we didn't really understand it in the depth we do today but if you look at what we've figured out is that it's not just about the AI machine learning that is the most important, we think that is critically important and you could see advance data science is a key part of what we think it takes to win. But as I mentioned before, what we've learned is that only tells you about the past. What we also know is that when you combine it with your traditional physics-based modeling that's what's going to tell you about the future. Those two things combined together are really powerful, which means you have to have domain knowledge because without domain knowledge you don't do physics-based modeling.
The last thing is the ability to apply your own engineering talent both to deciding how you rebuild your products with more data, with the right data; we decide that, we are in control of our destiny of working with our products to bring out more data. Also our engineers in the field provide us with insight that no one else can. When you combine those three things together that is winning and powerful combination. The other thing we've learned over the last five years, when you combine that data with the statistics, with the physics, and build an application, the application is best suited when you focus on an outcome. And at the end of the day you can simplify this I want to either be more efficient with resources or generate more capability, or be safer. Those are sort of the three basic outcomes everybody in the world wants, use less fuel, generate more electricity, keep my people safe and when you can combine that those things together and show this an outcome customers buy help comes, and you're going to see our customers are buying outcomes.
So we thought we just talked about this idea of the industrial world as being a huge opportunity thing a lot of numbers you'll see how we think we're capturing that today. I would make one other point which is we believe they're going to be three markets, there's going to be a consumer and enterprise and industrial markets. This goes to who is going to compete in which. And in each of those markets, the Cloud mobile technology is going to mean that there will be a few key platform providers in each. And I think you have to decide, is there going to be one platform provider for all of this stuff, or are each of these going to be unique companies. And then we're going to see a lot of applications in all of these areas.
Now we think that if you look in the consumer world, you see the Googles, the Apples, the Alibaba's who've created platforms that others are coming on to. And we see that world as one where they get very good at the home, they get very good at the phone, and they get very good at the auto, potentially. We think that the enterprise is different. These are companies who are taking your traditional ERPs and providing them in a new way that allows you to get up and running at a much faster rate and at a totally different price point. And of course, we run our operations ourselves on this capability. But we don't think any of these translate over, and we think that there will be this third world, the industrial world, where there will be platform providers and application providers, and that this world, we actually see as bigger and actually much more global in perspective than any of the others, because when you look at infrastructure build-out in the world today, the emerging market build-out is huge. I think this idea of consumer versus industrial is something that everyone has to really begin to think about. And the consumer world move its way over to the industrial world. And we think that there are three major differences that these points point out.
The first difference is in the machine, the second difference is the security, and the third difference is in the Cloud. Look, in the consumer world, the assets themselves are fairly superficial. Look, I got the idea of connecting to a thermostat or connecting to a watch or connecting into those kinds of devices, but the reality of those devices is that you can have less reliability and you don't have the real-time nature that you do with a utility plant or with a factory or with a fleet. The fact is that the data volumes and the criticalities of the machines require a different kind of capability than you need in some of the consumer or enterprise applications.
The second thing is the security is totally different. The idea of how you're going to secure a power plant, or machines in a power plant, is different than what you do to secure the Cloud and secure data centers, and, quite frankly, in the consumer world, the security is managed by the user, not by the whole system. And if you're going to be in the industrial space, you are going to have to be at a totally different level of security. Then when you look at the Cloud, what makes the Cloud different is - look, in the consumer world, we give our information away for free and in exchange for value in a different way. But that is not going to happen in the same way in the industrial world. In the industrial world, the companies will want to own and monetize their data in a different way. They aren't necessarily seeing that all their data goes up into the Cloud like in the consumer world. Our customers want to see a lot of their data living close to the machine, in the plant and in the factory, in the field.
And it's not just the Cloud world. It's the Cloud to edge world, and you're going to hear this over and over for us, that we have to think about compute at all levels, at the sensor, at the machine, at a gateway that incorporates a whole set of assets. And even the ability to move the Cloud closer to the machine and then the Cloud itself. So when you think about the Cloud architecture, it's different by its very nature in these industrial settings. Building blocks that you're going to - we're going to talk about a lot of terminology today – these building blocks on here are the ones I want you to really walk away making sure you understand, because you're going to hear these terms over and over. But the thing I want you to understand: our building blocks and our focus is three things. We focus on outcomes. Our applications are all outcome-based. What are we going to deliver? We're saving you money, we're making you money, we're making it safer. That's what we're talking about.
The second thing is the technology. We are creating our own technology and working with a lot of partners at horizontal technologies where we feel that that isn't something that we need to create. But we are building a lot of technology, and I want to talk about the kinds of technology we are focused on investing on.
The last thing is talent and culture. I want you to understand that you have to build the right kind of environment to be able to build these kinds of systems. This is actually what has made these internet giants great, to be able to build these kinds of systems. This is actually what has made these internet giants great, is they've got the right talent, they've got the right culture, they've got the right skills and processes, to be able to do this. And if you're going to be good at it, you have to invest in it.
Now the thing about outcomes, the thing that I want you to understand: our focus is on asset performance management. This is the center point of what we do. Others have other kinds of center points that they think about. For example, PLM has a different center point. We focus on asset performance management; we make the asset the center point of all the software we build. So you're going to learn a lot today about what we mean about asset performance management. And we see this as our first killer application into the market.
All of this is being delivered as a service because we deliver outcomes that people want to see it as a service. And from the enterprise perspective, we think of things like plants, fields, factories, fleets -- that's what we mean by enterprise. You have to be able to not only do your own equipment, but the customer cares about the end result of their - all of their equipment brought together. So when you think about outcomes, we are talking about all kinds of equipment - our own, all varieties and vintages being able to be managed as an asset. And by the way, we do those with partners because this is a team sport.
The second thing on the technology, we're going to talk about Predix. Now Predix is an operating system because it is not just a Cloud platform. Cloud is a part of it but it goes from the edge to the Cloud. And so we're going to talk a lot about edge processing, because I think you need to understand why that's important. So edge devices are a critical part of what we're doing. And we don't see one edge device, we think there's going to be a proliferation of edge devices, and a lot of the traditional proprietary edge devices are going to be displaced and replaced by other kinds of boxes. And what's going to happen is we're moving into a software-defined machine world, where the software will be the critical part of what happens at the edge.
Digital Twin, I talked a little bit about this. This is really what underpins asset management, it's machine learning coupled with physics-based modeling that allows you to see the past and predict the future simultaneously. Digital Thread is the ability to take that and run it from engineering through services and operations and optimize across rather than the silos that we've typically done in the past. The other thing you're going to learn a lot about is cyber security. Look, at the end of the day, cyber security is the number one question we get asked: Is this secure? And it can't be managed by the user, it's got to be a full system, and so we'll talk a lot about where we are with cyber security.
The last thing we're going to -- you're going to hear a lot about is how talent and culture matter. Look, at the end, we've had to blend domain knowledge with digital knowledge in a way no one else really has before. This is how you have -- this is a litmus test for whether you're digital or industrial. You should be looking at every industrial firm and you can determine this by seeing how well they have made this happen because you can't be a digital and an industrial. You have to be digital industrial. So we have been working to blend those things together, retrain our people, and you'll see that today with a number of the presentations. Tech skills are tremendously important.
And then finally, how we deliver this using Agile. Using the kinds of techniques that have made Silicon Valley great we're moving into a world where speed matters, continuous delivery, Agile skills, these are the kinds of companies we're creating today. And so these are the building blocks that, if you take this and look at it, this will help you understand everything we're going to be talking about today.
Finally, a couple of points about how to think of us in comparison to the rest of the world. Look, you're going to go and talk to -- and you already do, everybody talks about IoT. First of all, we think of the industrial internet as different than IoT. So we think about how we're going to make a power plant more efficient. Our language is different, the technology is different, but with that said, all -- everyone recognizes this opportunity. So you can talk to all these folks and every one of them will talk about the idea of the opportunity and how they think they play in this opportunity. So the fact is this is going to be a very interesting world for the next few years as we figure out how all this plays together. I want you to think about it this way. And this is how we view the world. Look, most of those folks come from four different viewpoints. They're an automation company, they're a generic Cloud platform company, they're a system of Records Company, or they're an analytic tool company. And when you look across them, that's the perspective they come from.
We look at it, at Predix, as recreating from scratch an industrial operating system, not taking our pre-existing system of record capability, our pre-existing automation capability, but building from scratch a next generation and the reason why is if these things worked for the productivity we've seen productivity work, we think you have to reinvent this to get to the productivity fames. So for us Predix is you'll see a buildup of this in a totally different way to deliver digital skills in the same way we might have seen the consumer internet happen. I also want to point out when you look at all these; we actually look at all these guys as partners and in many cases you're going to hear from Page Johnson about many a lot we have already partnered with because that the key that these things are still important, they are just importance integrated together for our customers.
So when you look at competition they would think that we are the first with an industrial operating system out into the world today, working with our customers and all this technology integrated together. That then translates into what makes us different and how we are investing and focusing our efforts. One is on domain knowledge and skill, if we look at ourselves our ability to take our domain knowledge which I hit on a bunch of times this is tremendously important, this is going the differentiator. Lots of industrial companies have domain knowledge that they can bring it in as well. Scale is important that we are global and this is a global game. Industrial is happening outside the U. S and we're seeing this even in the time companies we are working with from the beginning. And we will deliver hundreds of applications to the market using that domain knowledge, and you'll see that from our businesses and how they're driving growth for themselves.
The second thing is we have a Digital industrial platform, we think it's the first Digital industrial platform with assets at the center, APM is the center point of this and when you can look at us we judge ourselves on having thousands of GE partner apps on here delivering value to our customers and you should look at the progress we made the dates, and getting those kinds of people on. And we think that this is going to differentiate us because we have first mover advantage, we're the only one that we think that is the asset performance management focus and the platform out today at the edge all the way to the clouds.
The last thing is you've got to be willing to partner you cannot deliver this by yourself because the integration is tremendously important. So for us we want to have hundreds of partners, and we expect that fifty partners onboard by the end of the year, we're judging ourselves on that, and at the end hundreds of thousands of developers on the platform building capability from those partners. So these are the three things that you can look and say how well are we making progress? Are we building applications supplying our domain? How good is the platform? Is it focus on the way I center as the performance management? Are we building the commercial ecosystem and making progress? Those are the things we think we are focused on again as the competition emerges.
Finally, from an organizational perspective I leave you with this, this just described this as it's a company within the company it is got the nature of GE Digital horizontal business focused on selling Predix and APM out of the market and you're going to hear about that. But it also means we have that digital inside every one of our businesses. If you pull it out of the businesses you lose the scale, you lose the customer focus. So we have to leave it in there, we have to create cheap digital officers who are driving it with the businesses, and those cheap digital officers in the businesses report to me and they report to the CEO, that's not as clean as we know like if it's the matrix but guess what that's the only way to make this work where you get to leverage scale in domain knowledge simultaneously, while you're building in and building digital capability, and so for us it's not business as usual in creating this GE Digital, and that's okay because you got a lean into the hard work. I would tell you this if you look at the market is it will some people create a digital unit credits on the side, how many of those who actually built sizeable businesses like incubating it that way? And not leveraging their scale? So we think if you don't trust choose to be a Digital industrial you cannot win this battle.
So that is our thesis, that's what we believe in our heart, we are all in on this this is how we're going to market, these are the things we're investing in, this is how we're organizing ourselves and we think we've done that the right way. What you're going to hear now from the people who do the work, the people who have to have this content. And this is about one third of this leadership team across GE that's driving Digital, and you're going to see a lot people who are new from the industry on the horizontal side dealing with Predix an APM, and how we're going to market, the partners, and so you're going to see a lot of people from the outside couple with people from the inside GE blended together making this happen. we also talk from the business perspective from the vertical and again you're going to see new great talent like Ganesh Bell, Seth Bodnar who brings digital talent from the outside coupled with people who are deep industrial to become digital leaders like Kevin McAllister. The idea that we're taking these kinds of leaders who are industrial making Digital, you judge whether they're leading the way in Digital.
So with that I'd like to turn over to my friend, Khozema Shipchandler.
Khozema Shipchandler
Great, thank you, Bill. So my name is Khozema Shipchandler, I am going to take you through a little bit about how we define success. Obviously with twenty years of experience a GE I'm one of the west new folks they going to hear from of the course of the morning. You know the way we think about success I'd really like to focus on leading indicators, there's two in particular little focus on today in terms of the way that we think about the way that we're getting marketplace traction that ultimately obviously leads to financial success.
So the two that I like to focus on; one is developers on Predix. The second one is partners so if you think about developers, we launch this platform in February, when general availability we're targeting 20,000 developers by the end of the year. We are about 10,000 year to date, about halfway kind of through the year even though we lost the platform the little the end of the year. So we feel really good about the progress that we're making in terms of the developers that are signing up for the platform. At the same time Bill alluded to we're really trying to build out this kind of partnership network we're targeting 50 partners by the end of the year, we've got 31 already signed up to the platform, And we're pushing probably well about 50 at this point. The relevance of those two metrics is, is that really what we're trying to do is develop an ecosystem that's actually going to be the growth engine behind the financial success that we think is going to follow behind these leading indicators.
And when you think about what happens here is that you bring developers to the platform, you have partners that extend the capability geographically into new verticals into the vertical that were already in today. And you combine those with customers that are how you drive innovation, how you drive stickiness to the platform, and ultimately how you create this growth engine which will ultimately house thousands of applications that are going to generate customer value. Now the same time that we are investing in scaling quite frankly we're investing to win. You know this is not all that different quite frankly from what we did in our services franchise about twenty years ago, in twenty years ago we made investments very similar to what you see on this page, and today our share owners are enjoying the returns that are made off of those investments that were made.
Similarly, we are investing about a billion for this year in different kinds of capabilities that we believer required to win this is to win this battle. So if you can kind have think about the different areas that we're investing in the way that it breaks down. We're investing in the digital threat, you'll hear Jim Fowler talk about this it's about digitally connecting our factories, it's about enhancing our capabilities in engineering, in services, in manufacturing and commercially. We're investing in vertical capability so businesses have are in the efforts of their own, where they're developing extensions into what we do horizontally to develop and enhance the capabilities that are much better suited for the custom applications for their businesses.
And at the same time, I will spend a lot of time talking about the horizontal in the first half of this, We're developing horizontal capabilities are spending nearly $700 million developing Predix the operating system, developing applications, developing cloud infrastructure has to have hardened Cyber capabilities, and the developing at all for the edge. And the paybacks are pretty good at the same time as well. You get half a billion dollars of productivity which drops straight to the bottom line. At the same time we're also generating about $6 billion plus of revenues, And we feel like that's a pretty good pay back based on some the investments that we've already made as well as investments that we continue to make in the current year.
In terms of one of the leading kind of financial indicators is this all rolls out, we communicated earlier in the year that we expected about $6.7 billion of borders. The way that we look at it today is that we're pushing slightly above $7 billion and so we see Consistent market momentum behind our efforts. If you look at the left-hand side of the page, what you can see is that very broad-based contribution across all of our businesses, all of them pushing more or less 30% plus across the franchises.
At the same time, the one notable exception is healthcare. We're rebuilding our healthcare portfolio. You're going to hear Charles talk about a lot of the exciting things that we're pursuing there, which ultimately will yield a 10% growth target for next year. At the same time, you'll notice the bottom line there, Digital Core, growing well in excess of 100%. So this is really expansion into new verticals, new markets in which we've traditionally not participated, and this thing is really taking off fantastically, globally.
The honest truth is, is that we're actually growing faster right now outside of the U.S. than we are actually in the U.S., and our partners in this overall ecosystem that we keep harping on is really what's helping us expand our reach. And so we have a great foundation that we're building from and really, we're trying to put every one of our businesses on a path to growing into $1 billion franchises in their own right, and we feel like we've made pretty good progress to get there. In terms of the way that we generate revenue, you know, there is a number of different models that are at play here. We're experimenting with a few new models, and there's some that you're going to be familiar with. We can do this in kind of one of two ways. We can do this through the existing Services franchise, and at the same time, we can sell these services on a stand-alone basis.
Let me give you a few examples. So upgrades, this will be something that you're pretty familiar with. An example would be the advanced gas path upgrades, AGPs that we do. This is hardware, which is fundamentally software-enabled. It allows us to enhance the value of a customized service agreement or another kind of a service offering. At the same time, we can do a stand-alone deal. What a standalone deal would look like, we would do a rev share. So this is where a customer -- and one example would be Exelon, would develop an application; that application would be either developed by themselves, developed jointly with us, or potentially developed by a partner. That application would ultimately be hosted on our operating system. They would derive revenues themselves and at the same time, we would take a cut of that revenue, thereby deriving our own sort of value based on an application that they developed. We can sell licenses, we can sell any kind of a traditional software model, probably something that you're more familiar with on a subscription basis. That could be GE-developed applications, third-party-developed applications, you're going to hear a lot of examples this afternoon - during the course of the morning, that are outcome-based, where we target a specific customer outcome and, then, based on our ability to achieve that outcome, we take a share of that value.
And then finally, you're going to hear a lot in a moment about platform as a service. And so this is our Predix operating system in which we have embedded microservice capabilities in which people are actually using our operating system to derive value, develop applications, and ultimately use data. And there is a variety of others that we're using at the same time that we constantly are trying to experiment with fundamentally to generate the most value for our customers. And every single one of them is generating incremental value for the shareowner. In terms of the way that we ultimately create future value for the company, this is the way that we look at it. So today, we're about a $6 billion Digital business for 2016. That's built on the back of a very strong software, professional services that help implement that software, the operating system Predix that we've been talking about, and digitally enabled outcomes like AGPs, and then productivity solutions that generate outcomes for our customers.
You heard Jeff talk earlier about the ways in which we dissect the value that we're going to generate, productivity, applications and upgrades, and then the operating system. And you can see the way that that breaks down in the current period. By 2020, we believe that we can grow this into a $15 billion franchise. Productivity - we feel very, very good about being able to generation $1 billion on run rate productivity annually by 2020. In terms of applications and upgrades, you've heard us talk about it a few times, asset performance management is the cornerstone application that we're really trying to push value with. At the same time, we have additional applications built on brilliant manufacturing as well as automation. We have cyber capabilities and we're constantly developing new applications that deliver new value. And then we have Predix, the operating system, which we believe ultimately can deliver value not just within our current verticals but within the industrial internet at large. And ultimately generate $4 billion off of that platform, with very, very rich margins that are associated with that.
So as we think about where we are today and growing that out to 2020, we see a very, very strong trajectory to hit $15 billion, with very attractive 30% put-pushing -- 30% plus operating margins, which are ultimately accretive to our bottom-line.
At the same time, we're making some investments to accelerate our efforts. And so there's a variety of outright acquisitions that we've done as well as equity stakes that we've taken in companies. I thought I'd give you two examples to maybe illustrate the point. So Pivotal; Pivotal's a company in which we have an equity stake. What they do is, they provide infrastructure capabilities that allow us to run our Predix operating system in a more constructive way. It also gives us access to domain and technology, as well as technology and developers themselves; very, very attractive for us and a good partnership arrangement with them at the same time, if you jump down to the bottom of the page, we have great cyber capabilities. You know, we bought this asset called Wurldtech several years ago. These are capabilities - they're signatures that allow us to protect our products.
So this is different from network infrastructure but actually allows us to protect a gas turbine or an aircraft engine using cyber capabilities that we own ourselves that enhance the Predix operating system as well as allow us to protect our assets that we're deploying out in the field. We're constantly evaluating whether or not we want to take on new investments. There is a variety of considerations that go into it, but fundamentally, what this is going to be governed by is ultimately speed to the market, and whether or not we can develop a differentiating capability on a build-versus-buy basis. And we're always going to be looking at enhancing the technology stack, delivering new applications, and growing new adjacencies. And we will do different investments to enhance those capabilities.
Finally, I just thought I'd touch on the cultural change required here. You know, I'm a 20-year veteran of GE. I'm sort of a classic mold, I came through our leadership programs, I spent a lot of my career in the Aviation business, ultimately I was the CFO of Aviation Services. I was out in the Middle East for a little while, serving as the CFO of the Global Growth organization out there. And then I ran the Corporate Audit staff before taking on this role. And I can tell you, quite frankly, that this is the single most exciting endeavor that we've taken on as a company, at least in my career. It's completely energized the entire company, you know, things like Digital Thread and Predix -- they're just examples but they're two of many that are fundamentally demanding a complete transformation of the way that we run the company.
The strategic stuff that we're doing with our customers it enhances value that we already have and it's delivering outcomes at a much greater level than what we have ever had before. And you are going to hear from a lot of external as well as internal speakers, and I think it's that unique marriage of capabilities from both sides that's really going to be what allows us to ultimately do this. We're operating from a new sense of urgency, efficiency, simplification -- we're investing in a very profound way and we're unafraid to experiment. You know, if a couple things don't work out here, we'll shut those down, we will move on, and we'll keep going.
And then finally, I really believe, having been here a long time, that GE is uniquely positioned to do this. You know, we've talked about a variety of our killer applications, but kind of the overarching killer app in this is, our domain combined with our analytics. And there are very few companies that have the wherewithal to be able to pull this off.
So with that, I'd like to turn it over to Harel Kodesh, who's going to talk to you about technology.
Harel Kodesh
Thanks, Khozema. I'm not a 20-year veteran of GE, I joined GE about less than two years ago. I've spent most of my career in companies like Microsoft - I ran the Mobile division for them; EMC, I ran the Cloud division; VMware, large companies, smaller companies, etcetera. I spent most of my career as a developer and, if you're like me, this is the hottest party in town. And I'll try during the next 20 minutes to convince you that this is the case. This is not a theory. We onboarded most of the Siri infrastructure team from Apple over the last couple of weeks, and they told me exactly the same thing: they would come here to do things that do not exist today, the world needs them, and they have cool people to work with. And as Jen talks to you about HR and our challenges, you'll see that we are solving this problem not just by asking the experts at GE to help us build a new software system, we're bringing everybody that can help us.
The second point I'd like to make is as we look around at what's happening in Predix or in the business today, we look - we're not too proud to take everything that we can take from the open source community and actually give it back; Spark, Kafka databases. But we also realize that to solve the problem that you see on the screens now, we need to have quite a few new technologies and new tools, and I will cover them shortly.
So the problem that we have the challenge that we have is that we have from one level we have devices that generates unbelievable amount of information, all of magnitude more than what you get in Facebook and others, at the same time we want to make sure that we can process the data the right place, taking all the data movie to the cloud with nearly consumer internet style. And you can bet the result is not going to work, there's just too much data so what we want to do is you want to make sure that we find all the compute nodes between those devices and the cloud, and we process the information at the right time wherever we need them, so this is one thing.
The second thing is that we have to make sure that we are complying with the data sovereignty rules. The world is getting more concerned about those devices that we called our assets, but other people call them critical infrastructure, trains, jet engines, turbines and so on so forth. So countries are annexing more rules to make sure that data doesn't leave the country. That puts us in an interesting job predicament because the idea is that we would like to look at the whole amount of data but at the same time we have to make sure that we dropped data of centers in countries that are not allowing the data to leave that country, and as a result the whole idea of building hyper scale data center the same way that most of the consumer and the enterprise internet providers are doing, is simply not going to work it's illegal.
We want to make sure that when we approach because the machine intelligence machine learning algorithm we actually take best of both worlds, we take our physics based models the fact the knowledge that we have about our machines and the knowledge that other people have about the machine and combine them with super advanced machine learning algorithm that will allow students to interpret the data and analyze the data even when we don't have an idea how to build a physics model for that specific device. And this is a very different than anything else you see in the market. We need to make sure that it's the end of the day we also have an open eco system. So we know the only one that our buildings are plugging the holes there's actually more holes than cheese in the system and that's exactly how we build it, because we want the community the open source community our partners sometimes, sometimes our competitors to put their devices to bring everything that they have all of the system. Predix is unlike any other cloud based operating system that you've seen in the market, and it is an operating system because we are taking it outside the normal, the private use of GE and putting it out in the open.
So I said it's unlike anything else that you see in, and these are the three major components of the difference between anything else that anybody is putting there, and people would argue that the internet is an internet there's an internet. I would back to differ and these are the three reasons why; first, we need to have semantics, we building actually a grammar or ontology for assets. So we're talking about asset based economy and asset based computing platforms and that means that we have to be able to take parts in aggregate them into subassemblies, aggregate them into assemblies, and actually build a digital picture office locomotive or Jet engine, a whole plane, or a whole series. And so it covers all the way from the turbines any should cover the entire spectrum from the turbines all the way to the test ups because it is connect in somebody's garage, because that's the only way that we will be able to query that much information and still what's going on. So if we go electrified the world this is exactly what we need to build, nobody has that it's very difficult because the scale is unbelievable.
The second thing is that we want to make sure that we have the ability to build the right data centers, and there's the focus I work on this and they told me, It's one thing to build a hyper scale data center that along the likes of what you see in Quincy, Washington, Amsterdam and so on, stores a lot of pictures but if you go to certain geography they are not big, you still want to make sure that you build a data center at the maximum amount of proficiency, in such a way that you'll be able to get the all information process in a way that cost is not prohibitive. And you want to do it in a secure way; you want to make sure that everything else is secured because again the downside of reaching into our system is much higher than anything else that we see in other areas.
And the last thing is our machine learning, machine learning is different than anything else you see and everybody's talking about recommendation engines and so on, but let me give you an example if you go and buy a book from Amazon they will give you recommendation, the book is about $9.5. So there is so much money they can invest in recommending you the next book, and is recommended next book and you look at that and you say well but I've read the book I don't like the book, no harm no foul you move on you don't give it a second thought. It's so nice to have tool, sometimes they hit exactly what you want, and you get amazed by that, but at the end of the day this is an interesting value proposition.
If we give you the recommendation we have what we call the false positive, we tell you to take an engine off then we can go and service that because there's a problem with that, and then you take it and you open it and you realize there is no problem with that, you lost quite a few thousands of dollars because the recommendation was not exactly what you need. So our machine algorithms are different in the sense that A. they have to be really good on what to call the false negatives, telling you that there is a problem we are not missing it, and also the false positive not telling you when there is no problem that there is no problem.
The second thing is because of the costs associated with those things, We want to make sure that we can actually run a more expensive flavor of the algorithm, so in ways we are spending the money wisely on running let's say a hundred algorithms at the same time to make sure that we can look at all these predictors, aggregate all of them and give you a well thought through answer that his combination of our physics model and at the same time those many algorithms that's running parallel, they take a big chuckle computer resource but in the end of the day the answer's going to be much more planned, much more thought through and the machine learning algorithm is going to work much harder on them.
Bill mentioned the edge, and the edge for us is super important, think about not a single wind farm in all three turbines but hundreds of wind farms and thousands of turbines. As they take the data and the data is that that the speed out of these things actually happens every ten microseconds so there's a huge amount of data that is generated those devices, we want to make sure that we optimize the compute power, or the place where we run those workloads and put them in the right place, the more the closer you are to the device obviously the lower latency is going to be. And the higher the price is going to be because we run very small scale controllers next to devise, the cloud has an infinite amount of compute and storage and the price compute is practically zero, but the latest is much higher so we want to make sure that as the data start going from the device towards the clouds, we process it where it makes sense. we do some preprocessing in the into controller, we do even more reprocessing to normalizing the gate way, we go off to predict box that reflect the fact that people would like to have some level of insight within their premises, because they may not trust the cloud availability all the time.
If you are a great company you wouldn't trust the clout to be available where the grid is not available, and so what we do is we can move those workflows dynamically between one place and another. If you compare it to other types of IOTs, refrigerate tell us that you need milk, Fitbit etcetera. This is you don't have the networks operating like that, you have a much simpler network, usually it is an appliance, Fitbit, let's say your phone and then the clouds. You don't have that many layers and the amount of compute that you need to apply is not that high. So that made the name of the game here is to make sure that we execute the compute where it makes sense. You can develop everything in the cloud, but then you would like to run the blow-up preventer next to the drill, because nobody else is going to take it any other way.
So the name the ability to play the edge devices part in that is super dynamic is changing all the time, and the amount of data that is created is so high that we have to start shopping it way before it gets to the main arteries of our data centers. All those things the security, the digital, the machine learning, the edge economy is coming to play when we talk about Digital twin, and our Digital twin strategies somewhat simple we commit every single asset to cyber, so we build a twin of everything that we build, every single physical appliance. so when you think about Jet engine, when it leaves the factory you have a lot of information about what it is, how it looks like, what was the engineer consideration, how far was the freezer for the composite material from the actual milling machine. all that information goes into the definition of what the engine is when it leaves the factory, but then during operation interesting things starts to happen, we are not talking about just a generic jet engine G19, we are talking about a specific jet engine with a specific serial number that operates on the right wing of 737, with that plane number. That plane flown by different pilot, it goes through different pollutants in the air because it fly different route than another plane, than another engine with another serial number.
So overtime the functionality of those devices started diverges, and as a result the maintenance redeems their recommendation about what to do with that, really depending on all the events that specific device have gone through in its life. And as a result we can pinpoint the specific recommendation with our machine learning algorithm, with the data that we aggregate and it is different from one specific engine to another, and come up with different answers. That optimizes our ability to maintain and operate those devices and everything else is actually pulling down to the fact that we're not running up a fleet of P&L off a hundred assets, we are running a hundred P&Ls of a single asset each which is an ability to really optimize everything else that we do with that. This is not limited to the industrial space, it goes to healthcare also, so when you think about that we start to capture the specific aspects of patience and as a result of that we can move forward with individualized medicine, and ability to really deal with the specific left temple, DNA and everything else that consist every one of us and come up with a different solution for each patient based on their needs.
I want to go this slide let me just take the or through all the scenarios, let me just take the neck of the second row and tell you how we will look at things when we have a problem to solve. so that that problems early warning, you have the device it's running if I can give you a warning that this device is for maintenance, 60 days before scheduled maintenance I can do many more things. If I tell you the device is about to kind of crept out in an hour because then you have a problem if unplanned downtime, which is what we're trying to solve. so if the devices is an engine of some sort we can use the physics more, the physics go into what we call numerical propulsion simulation system and NPSS, and we take all these equations that govern the heat, the pressure the operation of the device and we can come up just by running the equation come up with interesting recommendations. But in many cases, some of the sub-assemblies cannot be described or we don't know exactly who they are or if they actually belong to a partner that for some reason didn't go through the definition of the equation and this is what we unleash the powerful machine learning.
So we take all the algorithm on the fly we create the features, we create the actual understanding of what's happening with the data, and those algorithm as I said we run a sometimes hundreds of them in parallel just to make sure that we have the right predictors. These algorithms together with the flower physics based models speed out an answer, and this is the answer that we use and we are comfortable that the answer has been looked upon from so many directions in which so many algorithm, that this is actually the best answer we can come up with, and that allows us to actually move the ability to understand what we are operating in a way that was never done before. Simply was not done before because nobody ever said before nobody can put that much money into the algorithm because they really have no reason to.
The asset, we build about the asset performance management or APM, and for us this is really one of the golden at this app. is not just an app, it's also a service. When we talk about micro services those services are created by Micro team, they are being done dynamically, and we release upgrades and changes to them every several hours on the average we spit out an update to predict ever several minutes. But this APM, this layer goes not just into the APM business itself, it is really the underlying structural of our brilliant factory, our health cloud, everything else that we do actually has an APM components in that, and the first thing that we do about those devices is really make sure that they get connected then we can look at the data in a secure way, and we can find out what the operation envelope is, basic notification, basic alerts, performance and so on so forth, so this is the first level.
The second level is to get some insights from them to understand how do to operate them in the best way? see if there is any emerging problem that will allow us to schedule the maintenance at the right time with the right regime as it make sure that we collaborate between the various people that maintain those engines, and get the equipment, the personnel, everything else in the same place that we can service the thing in time because we know that the performances forces is deteriorating.
And the last but not least is the optimization of that, and with the maintenance of the optimization we can give users not just that in alert specific alert that, but allow them to change the business completely by giving them a better strategy on how to do those things, where to put the other maintenance equipment, where to allocate -- how to allocate the people in the personnel that is equipped with that? And how do you make sure that you can optimize the KPI that you need. If you need to over fire the turbine we'll tell you how to do it in a secured way, not just tell you that it can be done. So APM is really -- you see as a thread throughout everything else that we do and as Jim talked to you about the Digital Thread, this is going to be a very important part of that.
We can now talk -- we cannot finish any talk before we talk about cyber security, and for us security is super, super important. If you think about that, other people will sell you a million cycles of compute and let's say they will spend a hundred thousand of them, 10% on security. We will sell you a million cycles of compute and we'll spend about 400,000 of those cycles on security. So you get 600 but they are much more secure than the other 900,000 that you get from somebody else.
And the way we approach security is in four dimensions; first, we make sure that the infrastructure, the edge devices, the cloud is secured. We use various technologies, we can talk about it offline but those things are secured like no other edge device. The second thing, we want to make sure that our customers, our Chief Security Officer in various customer organization have enough of an IT control over those security so they can see who touched the data, what data got activated, what time, is it normal, is it not normal, and we analyze it for them to make sure that if there is any security breach they get alerted for that. We are combining -- make sure that the fusion of OT and IT is done in a way that will allow you to get stuff nailed, and actually any breach of IT security will alert us to what is happening on the OT side.
And last but not least, we give them situational awareness, not just what's happening in their field but what's happening all over the world, what IP addresses are being breached, who are the bad actors that are active and so they can prepare for that.
I would like to leave you with those thoughts. First, Predix is an operating system, we build it by -- we funded, we have all the things, all the grids we needed to deal with industrial internet, and I would argue that nobody else has them. It's a combination of our experience, and the fact that we're looking at the digital problem in a different way. We define the centered ontology [ph] for assets, so this is how we can express arbitrary level of complexity and scale, for millions meter readers, for thousands of turbines, etcetera. We have a standard way to connect machines so that allow us to build an ecosystem with other partners, hardware and software that will allow us to create a much more diverse, ecosystem of those devices. And we have distributed edge computing, it's not enough just to put something in the edge, you have to build as part of the distributed continuum that goes all the way from the edge to the cloud.
And last but not least, the system is super intelligent. The machine learning algorithm that we have actually are not adaptation of consumer algorithm that will -- many of them started from the ground-up to do exactly what we'd like to do which is minimizing false-positive, false-negative and getting things done in an optimal way.
So with that I would like to invite Kate Johnson, our Chief Commercial Officer. Thank you very much.
Kate Johnson
Thanks, Harel. Good morning, my name is Kate Johnson, and I've been with GE about three years now. I came most recently from Oracle Corporation, and I just want to say a little why I came. So the opportunity that we have to define the market and to win in that market is absolutely astonishing. So I thought three years ago and now I'm more excited than ever that it's true, because we're winning and we're having a good time doing it.
So our commercial approach is just very simple, it's four-pronged. The first thing is we got to sell large deals. When you're entering into a market and establishing yourself as a leader, it's all about establishing beat-heads [ph] in our core industrial verticals because if you get one there is always ten right behind it, and that's what we're finding. The second thing is we've got to build a commercial engine that can handle thousands and thousands of transactions, not the 10, 20, or 30 large transactions but the hundreds of thousands of transactions because we have individual developers coming and we have the big enterprise fields coming, we need to be able to handle them both. And this is all about the Digital Thread in commercial, from inquiry to order.
We also need to focus on establishing GE as our best reference, and this is actually one of the major strategic advantages that we have as a company. We've been up as for five years now. We're using the Predix platform to drive productivity inside the company, Jim Fowler is going to talk all about that in a second. But when you go to a customer, when I go to a customer and I sit with the CIO, and I say let me tell you what we're doing with the platform to drive productivity, it's incredibly compelling. And then when I can take them to some our factories and show them how we're getting that productivity, often times its game changing in terms of their ability to believe our story and our credibility in the marketplace.
Finally, strategic partnerships are really the way that we win this and grow at scale. They are the fourth multiplier, and they are how we get acceleration in terms of growth a I'll talk a little bit about that in just a second. But how does an industrial company learn how to sell software? It's three ingredients really.
So the first is you have to import digital talent. Selling software, selling digital, there is actually a little bit of a nuance there that's different than just selling products, it's very outcome selling focused. Got to have CIO relationships, you need to understand the software sales lifecycle so you can maximize adoption and customer success, so you can drive utilization of your products. But if we brought in a bunch of digital sellers only, we probably wouldn't win nearly as fast, as a matter of fact, we might not win at all. 90% of the story is the fact that we have 100 years of domain expertise inside the company. We now industrial pain points, we have service franchises that have been serving customers for a very long time, we have the physics models, we have all of those things that can -- combined with a Digital selling talent make for a very compelling story.
And we outcome selling, we've been very focused in targeting the outcomes that our customers want to see; how do I grow revenue, how do I trim costs, how do I make it a safer environment, all of the things that Bill talked about. And when you put those three things together, we're actually getting traction in the marketplace. Very compelling market -- traction actually in the marketplace, and what I wanted to talk about, just a couple of themes that I'm seeing when I talk to customers and when I look at our wins.
So the first is we've talked about APM or Asset Performance Management as the killer app. Lots of companies want to start here, there are a couple of different ways that they can start here; early detection, you heard Harel talk about early warning, think about BP with an off-shore oil rig. So if one of those asset breaks and you have to send the right people on the right parts, unexpectedly, it can be extremely expensive, not to mention the fact that unplanned downtime creates tens of millions of dollars of unwanted costs or unexpected costs. But if you can know when those parts are going to fail and send the right people on the right parts during a planned window to avoid disaster, then that's obviously a much better scenario, and that's how BP is using asset performance management to drive better performance on their off-shore rig.
Rasgas, little bit different ways that they use APM, and you'll hear more about this from my friend Azeez who is going to talk about in couple of seconds. Two L&G trains sitting right next to each other, one performing better than the other but although conditions seem to be the same, so what's happening there? Asset performance management capabilities avail what the problems are, we can fix them and drive markedly increased reliability and performance levels. So it's a different kinds of way that our customers are using our APM technology but not everybody just wants to think about the assets, right? Sometimes companies say my asset, my line, my plant are running actually pretty well. I want to start thinking about things beyond the plant level, beyond -- at the enterprise level. How do I make better decisions? How do I unlock the data in all the files, across all the functions in my company to make great decisions?
Procter & Gamble are a great example of how they're doing that, they've been a manufacturing software customer for a long time for GE, and frankly their lines are optimized. They can produce the most numbers of diapers on one line that they want to at the lowest cost, lowest scrap, lowest material cost, etcetera. But should they do 10,000 -- should they produce 10,000 size 5 diapers or should they do 5,000 size 5 with some premiums. The truth is their demand data is in a different cylo [ph], and if they could take that data and marry it to what they are producing on the line, real-time they could make optimal decisions to maximize revenue and that's how they are thinking using Predix.
Finally, outside of our traditional customer base, the industrials for some of our manufacturing clients, we're finding a whole wave of customers, technology customers who are coming to us to say can you help us digitize our maintenance? Can you help us provide new services to our customers using Predix? Here three companies that are predict customers today; a bathroom fixtures company, a multi-functional printing company with some elevators to boot, and a mailing services company. All of them building apps on Predix, digitizing maintenance, and providing new capabilities to their customers. Think about how we're making money off of those customers, as well.
Number one, we're charging them to build apps on the platform. The second is, when they run those apps in production, they consume the services on the platform, and that's another way that we monetize. And thirdly, when they sell those capabilities to customers, often times we share in that revenue as well; so three different ways with helping customers digitize maintenance in many of the ways that we've done in our own franchise but with completely different business models and different assets. Alone, this story would be really interesting. But the reality is, it's all about the ecosystem that makes it so exciting. So our partner program is really just incredible.
We've already had 30 world-class companies sign with us. They're betting on GE as the horse to ride in the industrial internet marketplace. Companies like Accenture and Oracle and Wipro and Cognizant; world-class service providers to do the integration for our customers, world-class technology companies to provide us new capabilities, telcos to help us connect, IVs to build applications on the platform. These are all the kinds of companies that we need to help build the richest ecosystem possible, and they're coming in droves. We're targeting 50 partnerships this year. I think we'll probably hit more like 70. But how do we work with these partners to accelerate business?
They bring new capabilities to us, we marry that with our capabilities, and we share our customer bases, right? So we're developing solutions on Predix with them, with our joint capabilities and we're sharing pipelines. We're chasing 275 deals together right now off of these 30 partnerships, and they're helping us, you know, develop new relationships with CIOs that we didn't have before. Incredibly compelling, and just an example, Cap Gemini - they've trained 200 people to certify as developers on our platform. They're establishing a practice for the industrial internet that operates off of Predix. So they're ring fencing a bunch of their people and in their business model, people are money, and they're dedicating it to our business model. So it's an incredible validation of the technology, of our business, of our future together. And we're pretty excited about it.
And finally, customer success is the answer to this story. So a lot of customers say to me, Kate, I don't even know where to start. How do I do this? We need to transform the company, but that sounds like a really big ask. How do I get started? And so we've designed a portfolio of offerings. We can either sell them directly to our customers or through our partners, you know, on a force multiplier basis. To do anything from helping develop an IoT strategy with a customer, to do some design thinking about how to drive more value in certain aspects of their operations, to do a rapid start -- let's get started with one asset. Let's figure out if we can take the data off that asset and do some modeling and analytics and give you more insight to get better operational performance out of it.
And so, really, if we think about chasing those outcomes that Jeff and Bill talked about in the beginning, having the right service model, an incredible force multiplier of partnerships to help us go faster, this is an incredibly compelling story.
And with that, I'll turn it over to Jim Fowler.
Jim Fowler
Good morning. My name is Jim Fowler, and I'm the Chief Information Officer for the company. I've been with GE for 16 years and, throughout that time, I've actually had the opportunity to work in every one of our GE business units with the exception of GE Healthcare. And that's been important in my role today because as Bill explained, the role of CIO - not just in our company but in all of the industry - is changing. And it's one that's going from more of a backroom activity to keep the lights on and keep the systems running to one that's really core and crucial to how you drive productivity, and really the next generation of productivity, through the application of technology.
And so within inside the company, I have the responsibility, really, for taking the technology that you heard Harel talk about and the solutions that you heard Kate talk about and apply them inside General Electric to make GE be the best example of a digital industrial in the world. Our approach to this we call the Digital Thread. And the Digital Thread really is about exposing our enterprise applications and technology and data, exposing the machines that run our plants and our equipment, exposing the information from the assets that we sell and service to our customers, to the analytics and the digital twin components that Harel talked about, to drive productivity in how we run the company, to actually simplify the way our people work. This is a big deal for us. We'll deliver $500 million of productivity in 2016 and $1 billion between now and 2020 in productivity that will come from this combination of IT and OT; Information Technology and Operations Technology.
And our approach to it really has three components; the first is about building horizontal solutions that optimize the value chain. So think about this as exposing our enterprise applications, transactions, data and information in a way that we can apply analytics, artificial intelligence and technology, to drive a different behavior that wasn't possible before. Like many companies, we've done a lot of investment in the last 15 years. We've implemented CRM tools to simplify the way that we sell. We've implemented product life cycle management tools in the new product introduction process to save time in doing new product introduction in our engineering processes. We've rolled out ERPs across the entire company to really simplify the way we buy, and to drive productivity into our sourcing processes and how we plan for materials across the company.
And from a services perspective, we deployed many applications to really look at contract management. And how do we really simplify the way that we think about managing the backlog that we have of services work across the company. But like every company around the world, what we're left with today are these silos of information that are disconnected. They're optimized for different things. So these horizontal solutions are really only the first step, because you can expose that data, but you need to have a way to harmonize it. And that's where we start to talk about what you heard around asset performance management. We really believe that you've got to optimize for the machines that run your company and the machines that we're selling to our customers. If we can optimize the four vertical process areas or functional areas around the machine, we could drive some new productivity that wasn't possible before.
So Predix is the second component of this and specifically, an asset-based model for thinking about how we optimize the value chain and how we operate the company is the second component. And the third component is really around the persona-based applications. Simplifying the way people work. Taking out non-value-added activities that they're doing in their job day-to-day and automating as much of the work as possible, but then providing one view to how they do their job. And so it starts to make sense as I give you some examples, so I'll share a few.
So if you think about the inquiry-to-order process, we've implemented a persona-based application called Empower in our Energy Connections business, and it ties together drawing information that's coming out of our new product introduction process, it ties together information that's coming out of our Services business around the assets that our customers have. And a salesperson now can take this application into a customer site, and through software that we've written on Predix that's using advanced visualization technology, they can scan an electronic diagram, a blueprint, and that blueprint, through our software, will automatically go find all of the parts that we manufacture in the PLM system that we can apply to that blueprint. It will look at our understanding of the customer's assets that they already own and it will produce a quote.
We actually can produce a quote now in 50% faster than we were in that business before we started that business process. And they actually are seeing $60 million in increased orders due to the fact that they can quote that quickly off the blueprint. So here is a place we're able to tie together three different parts of the vertical, the different functions across the company in a way that we weren't before using technology, really Predix, as the thread stitching it all together. The same goes in the NPI process.
In our PLM world, we've done a lot around model-based design. So if you look at what we're doing specifically within our Power business today, they're saying, we want to stitch that together and connect it to the actual machines in manufacturing. So they can actually finish a design in PLM, and through software that we've written in Predix, we can convert the 3D model into machine code that can be passed off to the manufacturing floor. They literally can be manufacturing that part an hour and a half after the completion of the design. The minimum that would have taken in the old world of going through a manufacturing and engineering process was two weeks.
So we're taking out a ton of cycle time in the process through this advanced set of analytics and software that are tying the machines in the manufacturing plant to the PLM process that's happening in the engineering side.
These persona-based applications are a big deal, though. We talk about them being horizontal; a great example comes in our order-to-remittance process with our buyers. So we've implemented a persona-based application called Source Check. Source Check lets every buyer in the company see every part that we've bought from any supplier around the world at any given point in time. And they can see min/max and they can see how much volume we're buying from those suppliers. But we're adding to that technology that will actually scan all of the 3D models of like parts, to start to produce a should cost value that's based on artificial intelligence and the digital point analytics that Harel talked about.
In the pilot businesses that we've rolled this out to, they're achieving 25% more productivity than they had planned to this year, just from the amount of the analytic data that we're putting in front of them on how to actually go negotiate better. But the biggest opportunity for us is really in the Services world. As you can see here, $310 million of the $500 million of productivity that we're going to generate this year is really coming out of our Services space. And I'm going to go a little bit deeper in to helping you understand what this really means when we talk about the Digital Thread.
So I said a second ago the first part is horizontal-based solutions. What does that mean? Well, Harel talked to you about asset performance management. And at the heart of asset performance management is a set of analytic software and information that are going to be used in every part of the value stream. We're going to use it to push high-quality leads to a salesperson. We're going to be able to use it in the engineering process to be able to show an engineer how a part may be performing differently than they designed it to. We're going to be able to use it horizontally within the sourcing process to be able to give buyers better information about how to buy or in the manufacturing process to take out work -- actual work -- and lean out processes in the plants. And in our services world, it's obviously going to be used to be able to drive better performance and availability of the equipment that we're selling our customers.
So these horizontal applications are horizontal because they stay in the value stream, but they also span the company. I have 40,000 field engineers around the world who come to work in some of the harshest locations you can imagine. They're in deserts, they're out on platforms on oil rigs, and their job is really hard, not just in the conditions they work in and the type of work that they do, but in the process that they do it. They have to interact with PLM systems to get drawings, they have to be able to order parts and have them there at specific times. In many cases, they're managing 15,000 different parts at a specific implementation.
Being able to manage all that information is difficult. So as you can see here, we built a series of horizontal solutions, APM being the one that we've talked about, but inside the company I'm building solutions for inspection as a service. How do I use analytics to inspect analytically an aircraft engine or inspect analytically a gas turbine, so that I know exactly what work scope that engineer has to do, and I can take out the inspection time they would have normally done in their process. These horizontal solutions will span every business inside the company and so they're being used through an application that we've jointly developed across the company called Field Vision. This is the persona-based application layer that I talked about. This is going to drive $250 million of productivity for all of the work that we're going to take out of the process that we can automate from them. We're going to give them better-quality information that's going to improve the quality of the work that they're doing.
But here is the real benefit that goes beyond just this. Those same horizontal solutions that we're developing for contract management, repair and work scoping, I'm going to be able to reapply into other persona-based applications. So Smart Repair will be an application that will push into our repair shops, and will be able to drive the same levels of productivity there with those horizontal solutions that we were within the field services space. None of this was possible without the Predix platform. There was no way to tie the machine data that's really giving us the insights about how to drive these outcomes inside the company with the enterprise applications that we've spent so much time and effort implementing over the last 15 years.
And so lastly, I'm just going to give you one example in one plant. I've got 450 plants around the world that I've got to optimize, but just in this one plant, in transportation, it's a growth city, it's a repair site where we take locomotives for repair. We really didn't have much digitization in this plant, and there's two big components of what we're doing here that I think are just critical. One is analytics-based maintenance, conditional maintenance. Today 20% of the parts that are coming in, we have used analytics to determine what type of repair work needs to be done. We'll get this up to 70% by the end of 2020 within this plant, so we're actually able to analytically drive the inspection and the work that has to be done in the plant.
The second part of it is then we can auto-route the part and the actual device through the plant. So today, 20% of the routing in determining what happens in that plant is done analytically, and by the time we're finished within that plant, 60% of the routing will be done automatically. This one plant, this single plant in the Company, is going to generate $25 million of productivity to the bottom line of the Transportation business. And I've got 450 more opportunities out there to go after just like this.
So that's where this $1 billion of productivity that we're talking about inside the Company is going to get generated from the investments that we're making into the Digital Thread.
So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Jen Waldo, who's going to talk about what we've done to transform the organization.
Jennifer Waldo
Thanks, Jim. So my name is Jennifer Waldo. I'm the Human Resource Leader for GE Digital. Similar to Khozema, I started my career in the Human Resource Leadership Program and worked about 11 years on the industrial side of GE, mostly in GE Aviation. I came out here to San Ramon in 2012, where I really helped with the effort of starting up the Software Center, and now I have responsibility for GE Digital from an HR perspective.
So I'm here to really talk about our organization and our talent strategy. As Bill spoke to you about this morning, we created GE Digital in September of 2015. And at that time, we brought together multiple organizations across the Company, to really pull together all the Digital employees. And we now have 28,000 folks across the company that are really focused on Digital work. The majority of them are in product management or engineering and about 32% of that 28,000 reside in our IT function. Since that 2012 timeframe, we've brought in about 5,500 people that we've hired externally from the tech industry, and we'll hire another 2,000 by the end of the year. So even with all that hiring which is with talent that is used to moving around a lot, our attrition tracks around 5.5% versus the technology industry which averages around 22%. So that's a number we're pretty proud of, and there is a couple of reasons why we think that we're there.
The first is employees and candidates find the vision for the industrial internet extremely compelling as you've heard from many of my colleagues today. The second thing is we're working on cutting-edge technology, and if you work in this space, that's really what it's all about at the end of the day. The third reason is, you can work at GE and work in multiple industries. So to be truthful, you don't have to really bounce around because if you're tired of working in one business, you get an opportunity in the other. So when we started this whole effort, there was no GE Digital, and there was no Predix. And so when we reached out to candidates in that 2012-2013 time frame, about 90% of them didn't even know GE built any form of software. So we had to get much smarter about our brand and much more sophisticated about our recruiting practices. In those early days, we were focused mostly on proof of concept and this was in our Service Productivity area. And then we grew to focus more on applications, and then today, platform and Cloud.
And as we have matured that strategy and evolved it, so has our talent strategy and the sources that we have focused on as we try to build out this Digital industrial. As you can see, this would be a typical profile that we're looking for today in a developer. This is full stack experience, employees that have had an opportunity to work on platforms and build applications, both front-end and back-end development, and then opportunities to also work in a development ops-type environment. You can see contemporary languages, with education being what you would typically find in any technology industry profile: computer science, electrical engineering from some of the best schools in this space. We are going to hit campus really hard this fall. And so hiring folks right out of college is a big part of our talent strategy as we move forward.
So look, as we have made this pivot and we've tried to really focus on Digital, we've really had to transform the way that we think about talent and most notably in the areas of both recruitment and compensation. From a recruitment perspective, when I first arrived out here, we were 100% outsourced. Recruiters that didn't know much about the space and it ran on the East Coast. And if you're not from the West Coast, you'll understand that there is a big distinction when you're talking about the tech space. So the first thing we did was insource the function, hire recruiters that have expertise in domain and the technology industry, and run the operations out of here.
When I also arrived here -- GE has wonderful brand in our industrial market. And so we have great candidates apply for our jobs in those spaces. We don't necessarily have that advantage here. So our strategy is 100% focused on passive candidates, and these are folks that are very happily employed where they're at today and other technology company. And we really had to work on the brand. If you've seen our recent ads of the software developer who we affectionately refer to as Owen, that accurately reflects sort of experience that we've had as we recruited over the last couple of years which is part when I think the ads have done as well. And they've really helped us as we've created GE Digital to really be able to attract talent from some of the premier technology firms that we're all very familiar with.
The other area is compensation. So again, when we first started this effort, we were benchmarking compensation against the industrial sectors and very quickly realized that that wasn't going to be very effective in being able to attract and retain talent. So now the 28,000 Digital employees are benchmarked against the technology industry. And we've made adjustment to the model. So below executive level, historically GE in the industrial space, it's really just a focus on base salary, and we had to really widen the way we look at that to have base p