General Electric Company (NYSE:GE)
GE Annual Outlook Investor Meeting Conference Call
December 16, 2015 03:30 PM ET
Executives
Jeff Immelt - CEO
Jeff Bornstein - CFO
Analysts
Scott Davis - Barclays Capital
Jeff Sprague - Vertical Research
Chris Glynn - Oppenheimer
John Inch - Deutsche Bank
Julian Mitchell - Credit Suisse
Nick Heymann - William Blair
Andrew Obin - Bank of America/Merrill Lynch
Joseph Ritchie - Goldman Sachs
Presentation
Jeff Immelt
Good afternoon. It’s good to be with you. This has been an exciting and consequential year. So, we’ve got a lot to go through. So, why don’t we just get with it? In some way, shape or form, I’d say since the financial crisis, I’ve been talking about slow growth and volatile world, and I think that’s kind of the same theory of the case I give you today. U.S. is a little bit better. I think everybody has expected interest rates to go up. We’re kind of counting on a stronger dollar world.
China is not bad for us to be honest with you. I’ve been doing five-year plans for a long time in China. This is the 13th five-year plan. It aligns well with GE’s policies and strategies. And those tend to be the genesis over time of more growth in China. Everybody can read the resource pricing down, deflationary, has a differential impact on the global markets around the world from Latin America, Africa, Russia things like that. Lots of geopolitical uncertainty and lot’s going on in the world. And I think the only cry out for companies in environment like this is to be competitive. And so whether it’s on cost, organic growth or getting our own deflation, being super competitive is what it takes and that’s what you’re going to get in GE in this environment, and that’s what I’ll talk about the rest of the afternoon.
I’m really proud of the GE team, this year. We got a lot done. We got a ton done this year. I would say essentially we completed the portfolio pivot. We are executing extremely well on all the plans around GE Capital. We’ll have a $104 billion deals closed in 2015. We got Alstom closed; Appliances is disappointing but we’ve got lots of alternatives for Appliances and we march on. Our execution has been very strong on the year on organic growth and margins and cash in 2015, so, really world class execution and ahead of our peers. We’re returning a lot of cash to investors, $32 billion to investors from a standpoint of dividend and Synchrony and buyback. And we continue to invest in growth, in organic growth. So, we’ve got a $300 billion backlog. The GE Store has momentum. We are really a leading Company on the Digital Industrial. So, we just have gotten a ton done in 2015 and I really want to give a shot out to the GE team who’s made this happen, really a fantastic year for investors.
Now, the operating framework, I’d really say that every metric on this page is equal to or better than what we showed you at the third quarter earnings conference call. So, if you look at the industrial, our profit growth is still very strong; good progress on corporate costs; good progress on margins, organic growth. As I said in the third quarter conference call that if the Appliance deal closed, it would be closer to the higher end of this range. The Appliance deal didn’t close and as a result, we have $0.03 of uncovered restructuring. So, that will put this $1.13 to $1.20 be closer to the bottom end of the range of the $1.13, $1.20 but still a fantastic performance by the team. We’ve accomplished this despite having a $0.05 share of headwind in FX and $0.03 a share of headwinds in uncovered restructuring. So, really a strong, significant year for the GE team, $1.13 to $1.20 range, up from the EPS standpoint substantially from 2014, so great job.
Verticals will be on track at $0.15 a share. What we told you on the Capital asset sales, as already said, a $104 billion closed, $155 billion of signings. So, the team has done a fantastic job from April 10th. Free cash flow plus dispositions will be towards the higher end of that range. The way to think about that is we received the $2.5 billion dividend from GE Capital last Friday for a total of 3 for the year. We could get an additional dividend yet this year and so that’s made up for the lack of having the Appliance transaction closed in 2015. So, we still have the upside from Appliance still to go in 2016.
And cash returned to investors of $32 billion, again above the high end of the range. So, when you think about this page that we showed you a year ago and all the ins and the outs that went on in the marketplace in terms of currency and volatile markets and things like that, I think a good execution job by the GE team in 2015.
Now, I’m going to look forward in terms of how to think about the Company, why GE in this cycle. And I’d say three things. One, steady double-digit earnings per share growth in this period of time, ‘16, ‘17, ‘18 with lots of leverage, right? You’ve got Alstom coming in; you’ve got good organic growth; you’ve got buyback. We just have lots of levers that really bolster this performance in a slow growth and volatile world. A lot of cash, okay? So, let’s say $145 billion between ‘15 and ‘18 and CFOA, Synchrony, additional capital asset sales things like that. Plus an additional let’s say $20 billion of potential leverage if we run GE like a normal industrial and take on more leverage. So, $165 billion of which really compared to what we’ve said in the past in terms of how we’re going to reallocate this capital, I’ll talk more about it, probably 30 -- at least $30 billion unassigned that can go to additional buyback or M&A or things like that. So, a tremendous amount of discretionary cash. And then every year for the last 10 or 15 years, we’ve added new ideas to the GE Store. We’ve added new ideas on growth, whether it’s services or globalization. Now, what we’re doing in digitization and software and analytics, from a cost standpoint with simplification, productivity, ways to get more value out of the supply chain, some vertical integration opportunities and now the digital thread.
So, we expand the profit pool in the company every year, both from a productivity and a gross standpoint. And so, we think that just bolsters again in this environment, the operating performance of the Company over time. So we feel great about how the Company’s positioned.
So, I’m going to just take you through the elements of this in a little bit more detail, starting with the portfolio and capital allocation. So, just start high level with the Company. Jeff and Steve and the team walked you through kind of the impact of Alstom a week or two ago. So post Alstom we’ll be about a $130 billion industrial company. Leadership franchises, everything utilizes the GE Store. Good organic EPS growth; high margins, high returns, where we do financing is going to help the industrial company grow faster. This portfolio has a legacy of organic growth through various cycles, right? So, we’ve always been a company that’s invested in organic growth. We’ve been able to do this, if you look back over the last five years, better than our peers. So, we’ve got tremendous opportunities as it pertains to just sustaining this organic growth.
We think that diversification of the portfolio helps bolster performance. So, it’s sometimes helpful harking back to times gone by and being at this meeting 10 years ago and all I would be talking about was how lousy the aviation business was, right? So, between 1999 and 2003 engine shipments down 20% plus, earnings down; and from 2003 to 2015, those earnings were up 3.5 times. And that’s because in those cycles, we invested in technology; we invested in customers; we played through; we flexed cost; we made strategic investments. And the same thing happened in the power cycle, the Affordable Care Act and now we deal with oil and gas. So businesses cycle; our contention is, is that our diversification gives you more consistent performance that ought to be valued in the cycle we’re in today. And we have the potential to continue to generate high returns with a set of businesses.
I spent the early part of my career in GE Plastics. GE Plastics used a lot of capital, as a percentage of revenue. These businesses don’t inherently use the same level of capital. So, when we run in the way we should, this has potential to be a high return portfolio. So leadership businesses, organic growth, diversification matters, potential to continue to grow returns that’s a nice way to think about the Company and where we stand in this cycle.
Now Alstom, I’m not going to spend a lot of time on this page because I think the team did a great job of going through where the earnings and the earnings accretion was going to be in terms of the Alstom synergies. And so you see the walk from 2015, ‘16 all the way to 2018. I completely believe in the strategic rationale of the deal, fantastic opportunities we see, new and different ones every day. It took a long time to get done. And any time, you go through that the business is going to suffer. We set the bar to right place in terms of how we think about the sustaining business and where the synergies go. And we haven’t counted on any growth synergies to make our numbers. And when Steve and Russell and Jérôme turn the calendar again in 2016 and their incentive comp plans, Alstom synergies are problem. So, more walk through this, it really gets the Alstom integration on the field and then we have to execute.
Keith and the GE Capital team have had a fantastic year. When you go back to April 10th and think about everything we’ve had to do this year, I think most of our execution is year early. We’ve closed a lot. Synchrony I think has been a fantastic trade for our investors. We only have about $50 billion of signings yet to go, so we know we need to get done in 2016. Dividends in 2015, ‘16, what we’re counting on and then the rest will come in, in ‘17 and ‘18. Like I said earlier, we had a $500 million dividend in the first quarter this year. We received an additional $2.5 billion last week, so that’s a total $3 billion. And we still think there is a good chance we’ll get an additional $1.5 billion this year and still do $18 billion next year.
So that’s our expectation in terms of how this is closing, what’s happening with GE Capital and where we stand. Like I said, Synchrony is complete. The placing is on track that supports the $35 billion number. I talked about where the dividends will flow. We plan to apply for SIFI de-designation in the first quarter of 2016. So that’s another big deal and we’re really on track to return the $55 billion, which is the $35 billion from the GE Capital strength plus the $20 billion from Synchrony back for investors, so that’s the game plan in terms of where we go.
And then that’s going to leave us with a financing business, industrial financing business which helps support industrial growth less than $90 billion in ENI, double-digit returns, that’s kind of the GE Capital going forward. So again, I think a fantastic job by the GE Capital team. And thanks to Keith and all the leaders that are here today for everything they’ve done. Oil and gas is a tough neighborhood right now. So, I think when I sat here last year, there was a lot of uncertainty, both in terms of the market and how we would execute. I think what we’ve demonstrated this year is that we’ve been able to execute pretty well through the cycle so far. So the team learnt, so the team will have organic operating profit that’s flat to up slightly for the year, so they’ve really been able to achieve a lot. And we talked about next year being down 10% to 15% of both revenue and operating profit, and that’s still about as good as we can call it for next year. There is still stress in the marketplace in terms of customers’ CapEx and things like that. But I want to remind you that the reason essentially that we got into business wasn’t the time pricing on the barrel of oil, it was that we could see consolidation, technical intensity in the industry. So, we still think our competitive advantage in the industry is quite strong.
So, we’ll do more than $1 billion of cost out over two years. We’re launching lots of quick customer solutions in the marketplace in terms of where we go. We’re hiring good talent in this cycle; we found it to be a good opportunity to hire good people into the Company. And we’ll be strategic and opportunistic, as it pertains to the oil and gas business. But our core assumption and our core let’s say the way we’re running the Company is organic first, and we think there is lots of opportunities for us to grow the oil and gas business over time, just by executing better and driving hard on results and continue to outperform in this cycle.
Appliances, we didn’t expect it to necessarily happen, the way it happened but our underlying business done good job this year. So, our execution is good on operating profit growth and revenue. There is significant inbound interest; we’ve had bunch of people that are ready to step in and pursue this. I expect it to happen relatively quickly. I can never predict exactly. We’ve put on the page smoother regulatory process expected, it would have to be. I think that’s -- I remember when I used to work for Jack, I used to say -- I call out a person and I say this person is really better than you think and he say he has to be.
So, the regulatory process is going to be smoother next time around probably. And I just think this is -- we’re going to sell this business, we’re going to march on and we expect this to happen pretty expeditiously into the New Year.
And then capital allocation, we talked about $145 billion which is CFOA, capital dispositions things like that. And we talked about an additional $20 billion of incremental leverage that’s possible for the Company going forward to have what I would call an industrial balance sheet. We’re going to keep investing in organic growth, P&E and technology and things like that. We want to sustain a good dividend yield. So that’s always important to a lot of our investors. We’re going to return the $55 billion back to investors from GE Capital. And that leaves capacity let’s say that can go into incremental buyback, depending on how the returns look or M&A.
And look, I just think we have the luxury to be selective and extremely disciplined on where we go, and the capital is going to be allocated to the best returns. The extent to which we do M&A, it’s going to be bolt-on. The synergies are going to be obvious that’s going to be additive to our EPS goals. The market upside is going to accrue to GE investors. And we’re just going to be smart about it. So, I think the good news is we have lots of cash that we can kind of be thoughtful about as we go through the cycle and that’s what we plan to do, that’s how we plan to act and that’s what we’ll do.
So, I think from a portfolio standpoint and capital allocation standpoint, what I would say is that fair amount of portfolio stability with the tail-end of the execution on GE Capital and lots of incremental cash to allocate, as we go through this cycle.
So, GE Store, right? What’s our competitive advantage; how do we think about our competitive damage? And the way we think about the GE Store is how do we make size and breadth an advantage and not a disadvantage? That’s the way -- that’s the context that we have with GE Store.
This is how we kind of talk about it internally which is the benefits of size and that has to show up in share, it’s got to show up in speed; it’s got to show up in lower cost. And each business around the horn adds to the GE Store; each business draws from the GE Store. And we have lots of scale initiatives, like the global growth initiative led by John; the digital COE led by Bill; our services council, GRC led by Vic Abate. And that’s really how we think about the Company.
And what it should mean for you is value of size has to drive competitive advantage in technology, customer value, globalization, talent structure and that in turn has to turn out to be world-class metrics. So, the only reason that we should think this way is that at the end of day, our organic growth; our margin rates and our returns should be better than our relative competitors in the industries we’re in.
And in this cycle, I think it’s all about how do you drive incremental growth because it’s -- there is not going to massive tailwind for anybody. How do we get more value out of the supply chain and do we utilize Alstom or how do we leverage Alstom and drive the GE Store -- get benefit from the GE Store, as we think about Alstom. And so that’s how we think about the Company, how we run it, where we are in this cycle.
So again, let’s start with technology. We to continue invest a lot organically, the $10 billion includes what we’re doing in R&D, what we’re doing in CapEx, what we’re doing in digital right. So, we are reinvesting back in the Company and we continue to drive a scale advantages around technology, systems integration, efficiency of structure, we own our global design, how do we drive FastWorks, how do we get more NPI. And in this cycle from an investor standpoint, we are launching big systems. So, when you look at LEAP, the H Turbine, the Tier-4 locomotive, these are big systems that are going to be around for a long time. And we have to executive those extremely well. Then every business has a pipeline of NPIs. I think with FastWorks, we’ve been able to get more products out faster.
And then we have a pipeline of about 10 or 15 organic growth plays that fill competitive gaps or allow us to penetrate new markets. I put on here the advanced turboprop, which is we just got our first launch customer. We will get half the funding from European governments as we go forward on this. This allows us drive incremental profit. And so, you need to have all these levers that you can pull to drive sustainable organic growth.
We invest a ton of money in manufacturing now, manufacturing technology. So, I would say, if you went back five or ten years, the vast majority of our investment would be just in new NPIs. Now, we invest a substantial amount of money in supply chain and technology. And this goes for edge devices, productivity devices like controls and robotics. There is a materials revolution underway that GE is in the lead of. And whether it’s CMCs which go into jet engines or gas turbines or silicon carbide which is going to go into healthcare and power conversion, we are making tremendous progress. And from a manufacturing standpoint, GE is going to be biggest the biggest practitioner -- one of the biggest practitioners of additive manufactured coatings and things like that, so a lot of capability.
We bring the technology thinking when we think about Alstom. This is a page that Joe Mastrangelo showed you in the Alstom presentation. Historically in a combined cycle gas power plant, GE would have 30% of the content. GE plus Alstom now have 70% of the content of a combined cycle power plant. That not only gives us more revenue pull-through but allows us to harmonize the way that we think about efficiency, the cost, the project cost. So, these are some of the hidden synergies we’re going to get with Alstom, as we continue to proceed over time.
Our services globalization has always been something that we have talked about and thought about. Services has been a big driver of incremental growth; this is a big part of how we underwrote the Alstom investment. With Alstom, we get a $210 billion backlog, high margin, high organic growth with lots of opportunities to continue to drive value with Alstom plus GE, lower cost position; the ability to do non-GE products; the ability to continue to drive great customer outcomes. So, the service franchise is the strength of the Company and it continues to be very valuable. And then globally, we’re in 175 countries around the world with big backlogs, about -- in excess of 60% of our revenue as time goes on, good historic growth rates, and here it’s going to really be about China, and the next China five-year plan what fits GE very well, more localization, more infrastructure needs. And again GE plus Alstom in China, Latin America, Africa, India makes us at scale, significantly bigger than our competitors. So, it gives us a very strong competitive position when you think about the Company and our position going forward. So these have been very important steady opportunity for us and will continue to be so as time goes on.
Now from a service standpoint, we continue to use the service council to drive initiatives. Some of the key growth initiatives we have right now are driving share in some of the old installed base. So, we’ve taken things like Advanced Gas Path or some of the things we’ve done in F turbines over time and we’re taking them back to the Bs and Es where our share is lower. So, we basically think GE plus Alstom puts us in a much better position from a cost standpoint to go back over more market share in the edge installed base.
Asset performance management, which are some of the simple diagnostic tools are helping our service businesses grow organically. Our healthcare business is having some of its best growth recently in terms of its ability to convert data and analytics into revenue, a tremendous productivity pipeline in services, so we continue to drive upside in terms of where the productivity flows through. And I’d just show one example of field engineer productivity. So, we continue to drive services as an evergreen in terms of profitability and that’s again 70% or 80% of our profit and it continues to be great investments for us and get back as time goes on.
This again is a chart that Paul McElhinney went through in the Alstom presentation which shows the impact of Alstom in terms of its fit with power generation team. It grows the installed base by 60%; it adds to the backlog and our ability to grow profit over time. It really allows us to leapfrog and good opportunities and coal upgrades -- good opportunity to continue to drive cost and productivity. So, this again is a big portion of how we underwrite the Alstom investment and I think well position for the future.
And then you have to be aggressive winning business around the world. Big gas turbine business is available in Indonesia, places like Pakistan where the H Turbine is doing well. We received a $2.6 billion deal for the India rail business. We’re building a $100 million plus franchise for bioprocess manufacturing in China. We’ve developed a technology to do low cost drug manufacturing in some of the emerging markets around the world which again can leverage our global growth organization.
In oil and gas, we have been successful on gas to power operations and driving better synergies and operations for some of our customers that have been under stress because of the oil price. LEDs, we are doing big projects in Sao Paulo and Dubai that are big LED project operations. In Aviation, we continue to globalize aviation with customer centers in the Middle East we’re well-established on the COMAC product line and things like that. So, you’ve got to go with the businesses. The business is out there, there is enough business for us and we continue to drive that kind of performance as time goes on.
And the last piece I talk about on growth and somewhat on margins is just new ways to think about internal GE solutions. I think with Alstom we have the opportunity to improve internal sourcing, what we call GE to GE. So for instance on the balance of plant activity on the combined cycle power plants, we have significant opportunities on EBoP and things like that. So we’ll double the internal consumption GE to GE. There is a tremendous pull-through opportunities for grid products with gas turbines. About 75% of all the gas turbines that Siemens sells pulls through grid; at GE that number is 5% today. So, we just haven’t had the product line that we now have. And with Alstom, we think that’s worth about $2 billion in incremental orders over the next few years. The financing operation is much aligned today with the GE industrial assets, not just with verticals like GE cast but really digging in harder with the healthcare business, the oil and gas business which is fantastic.
And look, we remain the biggest clean energy company in the world. We launched the Ecomagination a decade ago; it’s $34 billion of revenue this year. We’re well-positioned in energy efficiency, energy transitions, renewable energy, so well-positioned as any of these energy transitions take place, GE has a good solution for how those go. So that’s maybe let’s say the growth portion of the GE Store.
Now cost, Alstom is going to add opportunities for us to continue to drive cost out of margins, so it’s about $110 billion let’s say cost stack. We still have a vision to grow our gross margins 50 basis points a year to get SG&A down long-term to 12%, hopefully lower; corporate costs under 2%. We’ve got $3 billion of Alstom synergies in the deck that we’re going after. What’s going to drive that is lower product cost, the ability to capture deflation, more supply chain value, leaner structure and digital thread. So, we’ve got good cost of projects.
Now, what I’m going to do is walk you through let’s say the traditional GE core from a margin standpoint through the integration of Alstom, let’s just see what the numbers will look like. So, on the left hand side of chart, it basically says, in ‘14 from a segment standpoint or corporate standpoint that was 14.2%. So, we’re showing this with corporate because that’s where most of you build your models and most of you think about the Company. And we’re going to give you a transparency on all these levels. So gross margin, segment profit, you’re going to have all the data you are going to need. So, ‘15, we said we were going to get 17% margins by ‘16; we’re going to get 17% margins one year early. So, we expect to achieve that in ‘15; corporate 2%. So, roughly let’s say 80 basis points of improvement year-over-year in ‘15.
Now we go to ‘16, you started 15%, our organic core margin growth is going to be up 50 basis points let’s say for planning purposes, both growth in both segments and corporate. Alstom is going to have a negative impact of 100 to 150 basis points when you think about just lower margin business which bring them in. So that’s going to set the bar at 14% to 14.5% with Alstom going forward. And then we’re saying start there in ‘16, we’re going to get 200 basis points between ‘16 and ‘18, getting the Alstom integration, probably slightly more than half of that is synergies with Alstom and then our core margin growth will continue to be 50 plus basis points a year. That’s how you think about a walk from where we work to where we’re going to be once we integrate Alstom. So, I want to spend some time just going through that arithmetically because now that Alstom in the run rate and we’ll show you all the various pieces as we think about that.
What drives it? We’ve got to better job on product cost. If you look at historic margins on product, they’ve been let’s say 8%ish over time; they are 5ish today. We just have to do better as we think about how to drive product cost. We’ve done a good job on service margin. This I think is our opportunity to really make a difference. We are driving this one hard. The power team is doing it with catalog pricing; they’re getting a ton of cost out of their products. And aviation, it’s all about learning curve. I review all these engine launches on a very regular basis. When I look at the dashboard for the LEAP, it is so much better than the dashboard for the GEnx, in terms of how we’re approaching the learning curve, how well-prepared we are for the LEAP launch. So that’s how aviation makes the difference.
With healthcare, it’s all about doing a better job on the supply chain. So that’s how healthcare gets its product cost better. And in oil and gas, it’s all about product structuring, how do you take the cost of the total system down, making more economical for the customers and still have great margins for us. So, we’re driving product cost extremely hard and that is important for the company going forward.
Now, the way you do it is you’re going -- we are really upping it a notch on deflation. We’re going to next year targeting about $1 billion of deflation. We are increasing our low cost country sourcing because that is an opportunity, in those economies is to get lower cost on source products. So that’s going to be a key lever that we play. And another lever that we’ve already started pulling and are going to continue to pull is in our supply chain; get more value of the supply chain. $30 billion of what we source is products we design, parts we design where we own the designs, we’ve driven the engineering and we just outsource it. When we do a should cost model and the difference between what we pay and what we think it should cost, there is big opportunity there. And so over the years, we started to evaluate, make bi-analysis that’s helped us source better; it’s allowed us to look at some components that we might think about bringing in-house. It just gives us more optionality. So, as we’re driving product margins harder, there’s just a ton of opportunity to source better and think through good make by equation. And you are basically underwriting your backlog at that point and your ability to drive the engineering and technology.
Now aviation’s already done a lot of this. Aviation’s created a series of joint ventures. The Avio acquisition gave us depth and gears. So, aviation has proven the point that there are going to be opportunities for us to make smart investments of high return. So, these so far have been high return, margin accretive investments that also help us with our long-term service revenue stream in terms of how we think of the world and where we’re going. So, a ton of opportunities we think in terms of product cost and product margins that are really smart going forward.
And we continue to make good progress on SG&A, driving SG&A cost out year. We’ve gotten $2.5 billion of cost out of SG&A since 2011 that’s above our plan. The challenge we’ve had is that the oil and gas revenue has been lower than we initially thought. So that’s a difference between the 12% and 12.8% but this continues to be a very robust initiative inside the Company and the one that we’re going to continue to push very hard. We’ve got a shared services organization that’s well underway with a target to get 65% of our processes in shared services. We’ve done a lot of restructuring. And we’ll continue to apply any gains we have back to restructuring. We’ve done a lot of investment into our ERP systems to simplify the structure. And as I said, our goal for corporate cost is to be under 2%, and we will achieve that next year. So, a lean structure, a better structure and one that we think is well positioned to continue to drive earnings growth into the future.
So that’s the Store in action, right? The GRC is driving materials technology through the business. We’ve been able to grow our life sciences business 25% for year outside of the United States by leveraging the global growth organization. Great financing capability, GE2GE GE4GE; 65% of our processes across the Company in common driving cost out; power conversion being pulled through in terms of systems integration. So, we continue to drive these opportunities that again for you lead to better organic growth and higher margins, and that’s how we think about the GE Store.
One of the most important elements that will change where we are in the GE Store is going to be a focus on becoming what we call the digital industrial. And this is something we’ve been working on for five years, we’ve been talking about it probably three years and we’re making some real progress.
So, start at a higher level. When I talk about digital industrial, I really talk about it on three levels. I talk about it on the impact of smart machines, more sensors on machines across the board and with IT systems that integrate from GE through customers for the ecosystem. And the benefit of having more sensors and a better integration of IT systems is going to allow for more systems productivity, better productivity for us, better productivity for our customers, level one.
Level two is as these sensors and systems generate more data, those data is going to be turn into applications, both hardware and software upgrades. This is going to go to our customers achieving what we call the power of 1%. If you can generate 1% fuel performance on GE’s installed base of jet engines that gives our customers $2 billion to $3 billion of profit every year. Small changes mean a lot. It’s all about the data. And the way we play this one is by getting more value out of our CSAs, both in terms of price and lower cost, incremental software sales and better collaboration with our customer. So that’s how you play level two.
Level three is there is going to be an operating system that sits on top of the products that’s going to take the data off the machine; it’s going to be cloud based, industrial strength, cyber protected that’s going to be able to go into an oil field or on a locomotive or at a rail route or at a hospital to pull data off of the ERP systems or other systems and that data can then be turned into applications for better performance. That’s the cloud based operating system. And that’s -- here the value is going to be partner value, incremental growth, a better performance on the apps, the better performance on the product, one to three.
Our direct competitors are all going to do number one, some will do number two. So, our direct competitors all do number one, some will do number two. There will be horizontal companies that do number three, some will do number two. We are the only Company that’s going to do one, two and three. So, we’re the only Company that’s going to have the machines, the analytics and the operating system. And that’s how we are playing the industrial internet.
Now, why us? Why can we do this? I’d say, the first element is there is a need that’s not being filled. If you look at industrial productivity -- this is not GE, this is the whole society of industrial companies, had 4% of productivity from 1990 to 2010, last five year it’s 1%. So what’s really proven is that information is nice but without data you don’t get outcomes. So, you have information rich data for companies. Let me say, I still go see 10 hospital CEOs a month. They’ve all installed electronic medical records, all saying what have I done. I have information, my productivity is no better, my patient outcomes are no better, so data matters. One mile of velocity for class one locomotive in the United States is worth $200 million in margin.
So, the ERP might help, a general ledge [ph] might help them but an operating system helps more. So, there is an unmet need that we can fill because we have the data. And if you look at the right hand side, this is today about physics and analytics. So, this is about taking assets down to a level of one, no more fleets; it’s not combining physics of how products operate, how they wear out, how they change over time and adding the analytics to it. So, we think we have let’s say a home feel advantage in the industrial internet. So why us, because there is a need and we think we can play it uniquely that’s why us.
So, between how we invest in San Ramon, a lot of you guys have seen that building downstream organizations. What we are investing in our own digital thread, it’s about $1 billion a year; this is not incremental, it’s really been reallocating. So, we’ve invested this while taking corporate cost down, while taking our margins up. This is in the run rate; this gives us the chance to play or be at scale. And here’s what we are getting. We’re getting total digital revenues of about $5 billion this year that will be up strongly double-digit next year. Productivity in the digital thread $300 million which will be up strongly next year, and we’ve launched Predix in the second half of this year. Predix is going to have 200,000 assets under management, a 100 plus GE applications more driven by customers and developers, 20,000 developers and 50 partners.
So, we’re on the field. We’re competing well, we’re competing hard. And from an investor standpoint, what this should lead to is higher market share of our products. It’s going to lead to higher organic growth of our service business, better margins of our service business and it’s going to lead to value as the industrial internet continues to take off and continues to play. So, we believe that this is really not something that we count on every incremental dollar and the way we think about the Company but it’s something that over time I think we can prove to you that this is going to be extremely valuable and a long term, a great play for the Company.
So, here’s locomotive, rolling data center. If you have the control, you really have the heart and the brain of the locomotive. The teams develop the series of applications. This is a $500 million business, it’s growing going 25% a year. It’s primarily sold as free standing software; some of it goes to CSAs. This is a fantastic business. We’re now rolling this to be able to put some of this on non-GE units. So, we’re looking for opportunities to expand this with our customers as time grows on.
Here’s our oil and gas playing field. Lorenzo business, it’s $400 million, growing 25%. Mainly this is software. This kind of demonstrates that we have a product plan that we basically run. And kind of what I’d say is a bill -- we run this kind of as a software business inside the Company. We’ve got -- we’ve kind of rolled our IT resources and digital resources and combined those. And so this is the kind of playing field. We’re not going to develop every app ourselves. We are going to have other people that write applications in this system but a good long-term growth of the product and services, as they grow.
This healthcare, the RSNA this year, the biggest launch we had was to take and have a cloud-based imaging system that customers could access. We always worked on post processing imaging inside the hospital. This allows us to be lighter and lower cost for our customers and also opens up for more applications to be written by our customers or other partners, as time goes on. So, this is really going to be a race to see who develops this fastest in terms of the healthcare cloud.
Power has been very successful in both digital wind farms and digital power plants. This is kind of software defined machines with controls and user interface and software, a more than $2 billion in revenue growing 30% plus a year. So, tremendous, both margin and revenue growth in the power business. And this we think will continue opportunities to add applications to it and more progress inside. So, that’s the power business.
We showed you this as part of the Alstom integration; Alstom had a software business, about the same size as the GE software business. Together they’re about $500 million. This is a massive market in grid automation, so, good opportunities for us to continue to grow digital industrial as well. So, good momentum in that business.
And then we’re also driving the same applications inside the Company what we call digital thread, which is more investment in applications and engineering and manufacturing, supply chain sourcing and services. We’re going to have Predix inside GE, so Predix for both the outside the Company and also the inside the Company so that we can write applications in manufacturing and sourcing and services as well. So, this is going to grow inside GE and be a big driver of productivity. So, if you think about model based engineering and brilliant factories, this is going to allow us to get the H launched faster and lower cost. We’re going to hit run rate on H in record levels. A lot of this is driven just by the fact we’ve been able to digitize the entire product and try to break the manufacturing. 75 brilliant factories which are really sensor enabled and this is going to lower downtime and pool productivity. One of the key payoffs is the sourcing data lake. So basically we now across the Company could load everything we buy into one data center, so that you can easily go between aviation and healthcare and pull together commodities and then digitize the way our field engineers work, so tremendous productivity across 30,000 field engineers. And then the ability to engine by engine models versus fleet models when you have a CSA, this is going to be billions of dollars productivity for service businesses.
So, look I just think every year it becomes a little bit more apparent that this is a leadership position for us, services growth, product share, services margin and incremental upside; already in the run rate. We’re not saying to you this is going to be incremental investment, what we’re saying to you this is in the run rate. And so I just think this creates upside, as time goes on. If the market unfolds the way -- we think it’s going to unfold; this has got some real juice in it. So, that’s the digital industrial company.
And now just to shift gears and talk about 2016. So, here’s the framework for the year. We talk about a $1.45 to $1.55, organic growth of 2% to 4%, growing margins on the core, corporate being between 2 billion and 2.2 billion, Alstom at a nickel a share, restructuring equal gains. At today’s rates this is $0.02 headwind from FX, right so we’re going to do this despite having the $0.02 headwind. IT’s industrial tax rate, free cash flow for dispositions of 28 billion to 31 billion. This assumes that we get all the way to the 4.5 billion from GE Capital in 2015 and get 18 billion in 2016. The appliance dispositions are really counting on next year and CapEx of 4 billion and then $26 billion coming back to investors, really what we’re assuming right now is $8 billion of dividend and $18 billion of the GE Capital funds going into a buyback, so this is kind of the framework let’s say for 2016 and where we stand.
I’m going to go through each segment individually so you can kind of see the left hand side and then see the segments. I’d say what makes it better, does the U.S. get better, right. What’s the Alstom integration? I’d say digital revenue, better cost out, timing of the GE, if we get more of the GE Capital dividends early in the year that probably allows us to incrementally buyback more earlier in the year so that’s helpful. What goes to lower end of the range you know really just continuous, even worse than we see today from an oil and gas standpoint. We’re launching lot of big products. We’re launching the H Leap you know I’d say -- I was quite encouraged with the tier four. The tier four locomotive has been really flawless so far, I should never say that Jamie because the lightening -- just when you say that. Stronger dollar, you know we’re kind of thinking through what do we do if you get an even stronger dollar and what happens if China, it has an impact. So we try to, we try to think through what are the pluses and minuses from a risk standpoint.
And then on free cash flow conversion we’re trying to get up a couple of points from 85 up into the high 80s next year and that’s the goal for the team and that’s going to be reflecting in people’s metrics so, that’s kind of the framework for the company in 2016. So power you know again I’d for Steve and the team this is really about Alstom integration and this is about getting the H kind of launched, down to learning curve operate well, they’re going to have you know strong revenue growth because of both what’s going on organically and what’s going on in with Alstom and earnings will grow as well and I would say margins would be flattish to maybe down slightly for this business next year.
You know there’s business out there to be had, you know gas is still the favorite technology, really if you got a real conversion in China, towards more natural gas, that’s important but I was in -- I was in Saudi about a month or six weeks ago. Demand for electricity in Saudi is still growing 10% a year so that’s really what dictates where the long-term market size of a business like this goes. With the pipe renewals out separately Jerome I have to give you talked on the phone is going to run this business, Jerome is long term Alstom leader, you know this just it’s kind of a different market cycle, we’re going to make sure that it’s seamless in front of the customers but a lot of it is driven by public policy. You know there’s a sense that the production tax credit is part of the spinning package I think Jeff looks like it’s going to get a multiyear look so that’s the U.S. but really everywhere around the world. This business is globalizing, we’re going through another product shift to do and onto a product about 2 megawatts, we got to get that launched and then to the run rate that’s the key challenge for this business. Again we’re going through an Alstom integration onshore bring a hydro in, things like that. So that’s the renewable challenge and opportunity.
Energy management’s led by Russell, energy management is really about continue to improve the business, you know this is a place where the markets are going to be okay, we can do a lot better in this set of businesses. Alstom gives us scale certainly in grid, so we think we got good momentum and execution in the energy management business and this should continue in 2016 as you think about this business where to grow margins and have good opportunities in this business.
Aviation, you know great backlog and unbelievable backlog, good service strengths, military you know you guys can read everyday military’s been challenged, really in this cycle so we’re not count on any upside there. It’s really in terms of talk about the Leap like I said I think the dashboard I looked at on the Leap in terms of the performance of the engine and the amount, just the amount of preparation that’s gone in to the launch from a cross standpoint. I feel good about how we’re positioned and it’s show time this year and you know again we think this is a business that even with the Leap is going to be able to grow gross margins and grow margins for the year, so that’s aviation.
You know healthcare’s had a better U.S. market, it’s almost been a flip flop so emerging markets pulled it for a long time now the U.S. is better and the emerging markets have slowed down. The life science business is super strong. A ton of variable cross productivity that John’s working on. I’d say that’s the biggest opportunity for us to do better in the healthcare business and that’s where John is really focused and then it’s a lot about what happens in the growth markets around the world in terms of where the healthcare business goes, but we expect low single-digit organic gross margin expansion in the healthcare business next year.
Transportation has really executed like the champ this year they’ve had a great year on the product side, good service revenue growth. You’re going to see a slower North American market next year, both in terms of car loadings but we also shipped a boatload of the Tier-4s this year so it’s an unnaturally strong year this year that will be more of a normal year next year and mining is challenged. So in the case of the wheels business is super tough and so Jamie’s challenge is really just navigating the cycles but this is a business that’s always done a pretty good job of navigating cost.
And the extent for the rail business is global. The India rail deal was huge we’re looking at a huge opportunity in Russia, we’re looking at incremental opportunities in Latin America and that’s really what we have to do to continue to grow the transportation business. In appliances we plan on selling again I think you’ve heard me say that at least five outlook meetings and we plan on selling appliances so we’ve got a quite a few shares copyright but that’s our plan. And in lighting we’re really trying to see in lighting see what it can. You guys know GE know it but you actually own the world’s best LED business.
So we actually have in this old lighting business we’ve actually have the LED business that’s growing the fastest in the world. So what we’ve done so we spun that into a new business called current, we’ve added to it the ability to do storage and solar and a whole bunch of other things from an C&I standpoint. It’s going to grow rapidly it’s going to have an opportunity to do PPAs and financing and things like that. And I think this is where we might build and create some incremental shareholder value as time goes on. It’s just participating in this growth market using really what has become a fantastic business inside of this core lighting business that’s going through transition.
Our capital is going to be roughly flat year-over-year, that’s what we’ve said to you and that’s what our expectation is. Again I think the GE Cap business is in good shape they’re going through an oil and gas cycle in terms of assets and valuations and things like that. But I think the notion of being able to have a smart financial service business that’s really aligned with a fantastic industrial business there is actually value there. So, we’re going to keep the ENI down focused but I think there is incremental value in terms of industrial growth by being really smarter about how we finance and we plan to use the business that way.
And then our plan is to have gains and restructuring offset next year. We’ll take corporate cost down again next year we say between $2 billion and $2.2 billion next year so we continue to make corporate smaller. We’ve redeployed what the funds into the digital COE. We’ve got a lot of shared services now much more than we had two or three years ago, so this is continue to go down. So that let’s say the tail of the tape as it pertains to 2016, the puts and takes. And we’ve tried to think about scenarios and what could happen and just get ready for another year for growth and volatility, that’s how we see 2016.
So just to wrap-up, why us? Good EPS growth, double digit EPS growth with lots of levers. Buyback, organic growth, margin expansion awesome EPS growth, lots of cash. So, we generate cash GE Capital through turning cash. We’ve got the opportunity to lever the company like other industrial companies, lots of cash that’s going to be very intelligently reallocated to generate shareholder value. So, EPS, cash, and a full suite in a slow growth world, a full suite of initiatives that can just drive that extra point one way or the other on cost down or growth up and are well established, and then the run rate, so technology, services, globalization, digital, vertical integration, sourcing, supply chain, productivity, why GE, right here, the walk.
So this is more or less the same chart, I think the first time we showed this was on April 10th or shortly thereafter that basically says you start this year, the buyback produces good results, we have to execute and generate synergies and it doesn’t take a lot of organic operating profit growth industrially to get you above two bucks, if you -- it’s just arithmetic. So that gets you above two bucks and then you have an additional $20 billion that can be used to generate accretive M&A or buyback shares, so that’s how you think about the Company’s valuation going forward.
We start our next leadership three year plan, what we call the long term incentive plan that goes from ‘16 to ‘18. And what you see on this page or what’s going to be in the metrics. So you’re GE leader, you’re going to get paid on cumulative EPS, so are we generating the ‘16, ‘17, ‘18 EPS that drives the walk, we’re going to be measured on world class returns and margins. So we are generating a kind of world class returns and margins and we are going to pay on our regenerating cash and are returning cash to investors. So we are aligned right, we kind of leave this year with a plan, compensation well established and that’s how we run the place. That’s how we going to run it, that’s what the team is here do so just to wrap up, a little bit on culture I think having a stable portfolio in a company where everybody knows exactly what they have to do that’s valuable to you. Okay that is valuable for investors, number one. The second thing I would say is to run a good industrial company it takes balance, it takes organic growth, productivity and cash to return. We got all three of those in place of company right now.
You heard me I can talk about culture simplification 3 years ago here, it turns out a better company to work at, is also a better company to invest in right. So I just think speed less layers more shared accountability is the fantastic place and I feel much better when I don’t want to be the much better about the GE team. I think the benefit you get in an owning GE in a cycle like this is you actually have an industrial team with financial crisis. So I think it is an tested team right, almost no matter what 2016 is like, it’s better than 2008 in the financial business and I think that you have got a tremendous I would say a team that has grown to that from a scenario planning standpoint, consistency standpoint in terms of how we think about the company. And we are like one in the marketplace. I think it very extremely focused our culturing team that wants to win in the marketplace. So we feel good about how we are position, I am really proud of the GE team and the hard work they did this year. I know a lot of you are probably burning up this is as hot for you as it is for me, I’ll take some questions, Scott it is over to you. It is so warm in here right don’t you, nothing.
Question-and-Answer Session
Q - Scott Davis
Guys this reminds me of last year where you took 264 days off the op and now we are here, here we are doing it over again.
Jeff Immelt
Well it’s 60 degrees outside, so you want to see winter somewhere don’t you?
Scott Davis
I think these Comcast guys just don’t like you and last thing every bit of frost that you they can. Jeff do you have a lot of balls in there I mean you have had huge product launches the last several years in the Tier 4 engine and locomotives and aerospace the power with H turbine inception. You didn’t talk about R&D explicitly in the presentation but do we -- we can pass this big phase of investment and spend where we now we can get a bit of R&D dividend if you will or investment comes down. I mean there may not be a new aircraft engine announced another seven to eight year right and H series is has been working…?
[Multiple Speakers]
Jeff Immelt
Yes I think the answer to that is yes Scott in other words I think we had to make a choice in 2009ish let’s say on the aviation cycle. And that was not a fun time to have to make that choice but we made the choice and the fact is, is that we are going to launch the Leap or the GNX the Leap and then the 9X and then we might have the total proper things like that but nothing of that size. So I think the same think in power gen, the same thing uncertain in the locomotive business. So yes I said the days of the biggest -- let say this big mega projects that’s more on the wind.
Scott Davis
Okay. And as a follow-on the world change have changed a bit even in last couple of weeks since your high yield spreads widen out and I mean volatility is as you mentioned is high. There is short recycle company that appears if you guys have seen pretty big order declines, I mean what you make of the micro back drop I mean the fed just raised rates today it’s seem to be rather I am not going to call it the time, I guess I will call it real time. Don’t get me this is John Interim I am not going to fiber gen over the webcast, nonetheless seems to be an oddly timed rate increase given what’s going on in capital markets and such. What do you make to the micro backdrop about there?
Jeff Immelt
Not so far because you read it every day, Scott I think -- I don’t think macro so much and what I think micro, so when I look across GE I’ll go kind of segment by segment so I’ll start on a gas is clear right so that’s pretty clear. We don’t see any kind of short time decline to the aviation still seems a pretty strong. Power is more I would say about energy transitions than anything else you see kind of gigawatts flats outside we see something like that even today. Healthcare of the U.S. market is better, but the emerging markets are worst so that helps us kind of want to cadence on its own. Transportation tougher driven a little bit by idiosyncratic kinds of things in terms of natural gas shipments and things like that. Global trade for us China is maybe organically up slightly for the year so we think China is okay, so I think Scott it’s just U.S. is slightly, growth markets are slightly worse, the markets tend to be more micro and macro in terms of how you think about it. I certainly don’t think it’s going to be a super robust economy but we don’t see -- when we look in orders and stuff like we don’t see a big macro slowdown. We think it’s more explainable by micro than macro. Okay, Jeff, we’ll go to you.
Jeff Sprague
Jeff, on the incentive it’s interesting the notion of not only cash generated but cash returned, are you formulaically going to lock yourself into some kind of return metrics it’s going to tie your hands in M&A?
Jeff Immelt
Jeff, what we’re going to try to do is be smart about where the stock price is, what returns are at the time things like, where the dividend should be, so I think we’re going to be smart about it maybe a little bit flexible about it in terms of what are the best returns, but we think it’s a -- I think the message that gets you guys is we’ve kind of built our plan based on organic growth fundamentally. We haven’t built it on based doing a lot of deals. We got a big execution list even for GE on Alstom that’s going to be focused so that’s way I’d have you think about it.
Scott Davis
And then separately on the guide, how do we think about appliance in the guide you’re going to have half the year or year of appliance earnings plus the gain right?
Jeff Immelt
So the way I’d think about Jeff is half the year of earnings all of the gains going to receive to restructuring, so we plan to take all the gains and keep -- we still have restructuring ideas that generated good return, we’re going to keep doing this, okay.
Unidentified Analyst
So listen on the $30 billion on unsigned stuff that you’re just talking about now and you’ve talked about intelligently allocated, but what kind of timeframe are we thinking about for that? And within whatever the M&A profile looks like are you looking at do more Alstom’s or more some of the secular growth stories that you used to do more of?
Jeff Immelt
So I mean see what I would say is that we just think about to a certain extent is the dividends are really going to be gated by how quickly Keith closes, right so my brother, going strong. And then safety D designation, right. So I think for certain extent that gives us more flexibility as you think about kind of leverage and things like that even thought that’s more with to do with rating agencies that’s I think about those, so we’ll know a lot more when we hear you from now than today. But I think on the capital side, that ought to be coming as quickly as we did the cash back from GE Capital, right, on things like buyback and things like that. And then but actually think bolt ons are kind of the right way to think about the Company, we got big good platforms to reinvest in and that’s what we plan to do and we can compare to organic growth and things like that so that’s how I think it.
Scott Davis
And then this is you keep revolving the digital thread in digital industrial company story and now we’re at the point where you’re starting to give us both ways to monetize or think about how you’re going to monetize it including putting that you had a $0.5 billion or $500 million number on there on internal productivity, so how -- if this is the next leg of significant earnings and cash flow generation for the Company going forward, how are you starting to think about the sort for full or broader monetization of this from a shareholder perspective?
Jeff Immelt
Here is what I would say Steve is that we’re -- we haven’t looked ourselves into any specific way to think about it. Again the way, if I was sitting in this room today, I would think about it in terms of ways that you understand -- what we’re trying to do is told a story in a way you can understand. So you know what another point of service organic growth is worth and you know what incremental margin dollars are worth. And so if I was the today, I would think about the first and foremost as incremental service growth, incremental productivity driven by the digital industrial. And then there is a whole another layer on top of that, that says true software opportunities, if you have the operating system that sticks, right, what are going to be the opportunities that, that go with that, those are things you can -- those are things we think about that that’s the capability we’re building, but what we’re trying to do so far is tell our investors just pull in a simplest terms that you can help us think through monetization but keeping lots of our opportunities open to the future, okay.
Chris Glynn
You’ve gotten pretty good understanding of my questions, so I word them in…
Jeff Immelt
I believe that’s a real trick.
Chris Glynn
Yes. I am an early convert on this Internet of Everything but I don’t really yet understand when it has a meaningful impact on the GE portfolio, is it a 2 year, 3 year 10 year horizon in terms of earnings and that goes really specifically that what you’ve just talked about that second layer of the world opening up to you beyond obvious.
Jeff Immelt
So, you know, Chris I come back to it, it’s a derivative to what Steve asked you know guys this is going to happen, so this is not something that we’ve kind of gained up, I was here when we launched Six Sigma believe me that was a lot more bizarre than this industrial what is quite honestly this is actually out there, people are practicing it today, it’s going to happened, we’re in the front seat because we know the verticals and we have a huge installed base cliff. So I’d come back and I’d say, right now the way to think about it is incremental service growth better margins, right that’s step one, step two is going to be bigger software opportunities and bigger operating platform opportunities either inside GE, our web partners and things like that, that’s a discussion for next year.
Chris Glynn
Is this for next year or is it a three to five?
Jeff Immelt
For the future, because we don’t know, look this is going to be with people that win the operating system battle, it’s going to play -- I’d say this is going to happen slower than what happened on the consumer side, when you think about what happened on the consumer and this is going to be slower but there’s going to be opportunities for industrial companies to play there guys because the knowledge of the assets is more important than the knowledge of the systems and that’s going to play, yes big John.
John Inch
[Indiscernible]
Jeff Immelt
Yes.
John Inch
The long term drivers that got GE to build its own oil and gas business, it strikes me that those drivers are as good without cyclicality in healthcare to do business but you obviously ran and GE hasn’t really done lot of them in that space over time and I know many people have been speculate it will be something that you want to perhaps been out, I was thinking the opposite, would you possibly, are you thinking personally of maybe renewing some of the -- activity in healthcare and why or why not?
Jeff Immelt
We like healthcare so if you think about healthcare today it is 24 businesses, we’ve got a life science business is actually is a killer business. I mean if the organic growth and margins are fantastic, you got, what I’d called device business which is monitoring in ultrasound which is fast growth and high margin, you got a core diagnostic imaging business which has been a slow grower maybe flat where I think the big challenge is incremental margins in terms of variable cost and productivity and things like that and the you got an IT business and the choice we’ve made so far John because believe me we bought something is to do more organically on the IT side than acquisitions and we can always debate that but we think that’s maybe a better pathway long-term for the healthcare business.
John Inch
Then just speaking out in terms of the digital, industrial, should we expecting once this builds in more broadly, should we expecting M&A is part of building out the platform for organic path?
Jeff Immelt
Yes, I’d say we just think about this John is don’t be -- we’ll take equity stakes in companies, I think you could see us do bigger partnerships with bigger IT players as you think about this but one thing you won’t see is a big IT acquisition. I can guarantee you you’re not going to see that because that’s the great roads are filled with people on that one. So I think equity stakes, small deals capability deals, big partnerships and then the way this thing is going to work as we want people like Tata [ph] and things like that, we want them writing on Predix we want people out there that are partners that are riding their own applications on Predix. Yes, Julian.
Julian Mitchell
I was intrigued by your comments around full year stability being crucial given GE in the mid of its biggest kind of a divestment, so maybe what should we read into that comment, does it mean the further launch divestments are kind of off the table for now?
Jeff Immelt
Yes kind of that, so we’re going to wonderful on capital, we’re going to integrate Alstom, we’re going to be smart about what else is going on out there but I think from our standpoint, this steady walk to ‘18 that is capital allocation, organic growth, Alstom integration that is very value -- digital industrial that that is the best value accretive play for investors that’s -- it’s not we’re not going to do anything or things like that but we think that is the play to focus on to run and I think that’s a valuable price, think about the last couple of years, coming in here and saying okay, we’ve 50% done with the pivot we’re going to start the pivot we’re going to do this so that’s a hard pitch, this is a really clear picture. This kind of says it helps to make sure the line here is exactly what we’re going to do and if you think that the team is dedicated to execution as you want us to be you should own the stock but there doesn’t need to be what if kind of digestion and if we’re as good as we think we can do on digital industrial, this is really going to take off right. But that’s what we’re trying to say.
Julian Mitchell
Okay, and then on the product margins you talked about how they are 700 points below the historic level. When you think about, how you got here, how much of that would you attribute to GE specific factors versus competition or the…?
Jeff Immelt
I think it is more mix and my view is we haven’t done as good at job as we should be doing in terms of our own supply chain and our capability to do better. I don’t really think it so much pricing or things like that. I just think we can execute that even better than what we’ve done, yes Nick?
Nick Heymann
I was just curious they even didn’t speak to much about the I guess our cost to secret sauce for your base structure is that applies to me and for that almost it’s negotiable in many parts of the world where there is lack of financing. And I would be curious and hearings like this to be advantages GE has and helping to arrange this structure logic finance with third-parties, as well as what you might or might not see coming for us from the recent climate agreement with…
Jeff Immelt
To the recent what Nick?
Nick Heymann
Recent climate agreement.
Jeff Immelt
Yes.
Nick Heymann
That 185 countries which also include some assistance with regards to financing for many of these non-developed countries that actually plans to switch over in a wafer foozle to renewals?
Jeff Immelt
So I think a great question. Demand for our distillers is third of the world’s population that doesn’t have electricity. Right, so when you go and see us Steve and his team go away places like Islamabad and places like that that’s what they are fulfilling. Financing tends to be the secret sauce and a lot of it. What Jeff and Keith has done has had really taken people from EFS and capital markets people from GE capital, and we’ve deploy these people globally. So we’ve got a leader in London, we’ve got capital markets people in every corner of the world and they are Nick basically arrangers, so these guys are looking at excellent financing, OPEG financing, tower Africa and that is the key differentiator in the infrastructure market today, and strictly places like Africa, Eastern Europe other places.
Guys look we also have a fantastic partnership with Chinese EPCs and so on one go one road right was the Chinese government finances development frequently this is a Chinese EPC with the GE guest servant so we work those angles incredibly hard on the climates update I would say as this is are really hard to predict that one thing I would say that one thing I always think in the back of my mind is gas and winds it’s going to be gas in wind world right so if you can be positioned as these transitions take place with the good gas turbine product and good wind shell and products that’s going to be those are going to be the products attrition of power generation side early on. Ken?
Unidentified Analyst
I wanted to dig in more on this product margin effort, how are, and aviation still not going to have sort of big product launches ahead of it. I know the big R&D hurdle is clear but you have the instructor pricing, initial ramp, how are you going to be able this time to grow margins in those businesses despite, I mean power I think that slides a down this year, so it’s going to be H coming in how do we get past that on power and like an aviation still of our margins despite product lines?
Jeff Immelt
So I would say Ken on aviation so you get GNX coming on the learning curve so that gets better every year. We’ve kind of steps in everything I see so far as the Leap execution is going to be pretty good. It gave me started at higher point but the learning curve gets deeper and down faster. Steve is going to introduce the H the H step in here one the higher but it is gets lower faster than anyone’s we’ve ever done. And then you have service margins improving, you’ve got SG&A cost coming down. You’ve got a bunch of other things that are happening. But we still expect the aviation gross margins to increase next year even with that, so I think it’s just really we’ve got better at launching the products.
On the incentive plan, one of the so we basically have four metrics in each business so lot of business a lot of business I think more than half of the businesses have in 2015 our gross margin as one of their four metrics right. Every business that had gross margins as one of the IT metrics hit, so 2016 everybody is going to have fun right, I like that sound so I think it helps but nonetheless I won’t think that these product launches as risk as well because you got they are hard to execute, so I didn’t think we did not execute GNX for instance all that well. So we kind of skip the lessons learned from the GNX and applied those to the leap and we feel little bit better about that.
Unidentified Analyst
And is H really the main weight on down margin in ‘16.
Jeff Immelt
Yes completely.
Unidentified Analyst
And so ‘17 all the people should be…
Jeff Immelt
So again I think H creates a little of headwind in 2016 but like I said I mean one of the thing we are learning from Steve and his team is they’ve really are going to have this steepest learning curve of cost reduction of any major launch we’ve ever gone. So, that’s something we’re trying to get from power that spreading to the rest of the company. Yes, I really think you’re going to go to Chris in the back.
Chris Glynn
Jeff you mentioned no real deck, no tailwinds for anyone, I wouldn’t quarrel with that at all. Just cost to mine looking at the figure 5 billion plus in restructuring over the past three years. How do we think about the kind of rolling payback on that, what’s contributing in ‘16 and is that kind of the normal kind of three year pay as you go raise for company your side now as we think about GE in the future.
Jeff Immelt
Yes Chris, I hope not, again I think there’s a lot of restructuring to do so we ought to be getting more efficient. It’s still probably, it’s higher the highest returning stuff we do, I don’t know Jeff if you’d add anything to that. [Indiscernible] yes, so it’s an 18 month payback type of thing so, yes.
Jeff Bornstein
Yes, from a capital allocation perspective, I mean the returns on the restructuring is done is been phenomenal. And the execution within the businesses on delivering the paybacks, that’s part of the reason you’ve seen the margin expansion which I’ve shown to you in the last three or four years is the payback on that restructuring and it’s a critical step in improving the competitiveness of the company from a product service cost perspective.
Unidentified Analyst
[Indiscernible]
Jeff Immelt
I think it’s going to be hard to tell really, I think what I’d like to do is kind of keep in line with gains unless you get something really extraordinary that I don’t think right now, we’ve looked at the stuff that Lorenzo had done this year, I mean we’ve got a fundamentally lower cost structure for the oil and gas business like a lot of people do. Yes, please.
Unidentified Analyst
Thanks Jeff, interesting to hearing more about the next chapter for GE Capital so once Keith and team deliver on the 50 billion remaining assets, once that fees are moved you’ve got the verticals and just what’s the growth plan for those and I think you touched on it is been in the prepared remarks you said, you got a growth strategy but will keep E&I down so is that going to be a ceiling? What are the metrics or the gaining factors and what are the opportunities over time?
Jeff Immelt
The way I think the, the way we kind of think about it is let’s get to the 90 first, right, let’s go through the detail ignition process, let’s see how the world’s working as it pretends to financial services and things like that. I think the shift I would make in investors mind is it’s really as much today about how we use it to position our industrial growth as it is necessarily as pre standing -- again we’ve good risk principles, wide discipline on returns but that’s the way I would think about it going forward and we see no need to be bigger, okay, so we just think there’s ways to continue to manage the size as it pretends to and we like having it in the percentage of earnings and things like that where it should be when you think about 2016 and beyond. Yes, Andrew.
Andrew Obin
Just back to macros, you travelled around the world and you said you’re in solidity how do you gauge the impact of lower commodity prices on businesses outside of oil and gas, I saw your public standing would be a great example right, because it would teach you healthcare business, what are you hearing from the politicians?
Jeff Immelt
So I think Andrew, again it’s highly differentiated based on how well prepared the countries are for what happened. I would say in the case of Saudi, it impacts the -- looks like the funding international treasury, it’s going to impact the way that they invest outside the country for sure. But you still have 10% electricity load growth you still have an initiative by the new conference to build out the healthcare sector. So, I think once you get under the covers of what the macro is you start digging into each country being differently. So, I would say in the case of business in Saudi, it’s still pretty good and goal is different right, and goal has been really massively from oil up, it’s going to have a tougher scenario with oil prices down. When every country is more or less some derivative of how well prepared they are, what are their needs, they still have enough on their balance sheet or kind of finance that externally as it goes forward in the future. So, that’s how I think about it. Mexico is different than Brazil. Indonesia is different than Malaysia. Nigeria is different than Angola, right. So, we still think there’s business out there, but it’s going to be very specific, it’s going to be very need based and it’s, you’re going to have earn it as time goes on. Couple of more yes. Joe?
Joe Ritchie
It looks like you’re expecting about $0.04 and accelerating deflation next year from the cost perspective, I’m just curious to hear the flipside of the equation, what’re you seeing on pricing, especially as oil and gas market…?
Jeff Immelt
I think price is going to be tougher, right, so I think the deflation, we’re going to need that kind of deflation to stay and be able to outpace where we see the potential for pricing to go, so we’re trying to create the right target that can offset whatever might happen from a pricing standpoint.
Joe Ritchie
And Jeff is there anything you can tell us about your conversations with the regulators on the CVD designation process?
Jeff Immelt
Not a thing. Thanks for asking. You ought to do a couple more matter, everybody’s getting a tan it is so warm in here. Okay great.
Unidentified Analyst
On the create supply chain value, interesting $30 billion of potential opportunities to get more vertical. Can you talk about it I mean what is the time frame to really optimize that and what could its margin contribution be? Actually if you could take it down to 2020 know a lot of questions would be -- where are margins likely I mean do we see companies [indiscernible] others, very strong businesses, margin 20% plus. Obviously some of your businesses structurally can’t be that. I guess energy management side but talk about that longer term vision please?
Jeff Immelt
So, here’s what I think about it. So I start with $30 billion of sourcing on things we design. So start with this is all technology we know it’s all kind of manufacturing processes we tend to know and then what we do is we take these components and we do what’s called a should cost process. And we kind of say okay, what’s the difference between what we’re paying and what it should cost based on our analysis of the process and we kind of look at those and say okay now if there’s a big enough gap do we do it ourselves do we do a COE you know kind of what’s the approach, what would it take to invest in that business what’s the returns on those investments and things like that. And I view that as a source of inefficiency that exists in our supply chain today, so I think that’s a key contributor to get to the kind of product margins that I talk about.
So again I don’t -- I think our margins in 2020 should be higher than they are today. But I look at, you know I look at, we’re sitting, let’s say in 2000 and -- let’s look backwards let’s look at ‘15. Our core margins of 2015 are let’s say roughly 17% in that neighborhood and on the product side we’re 300 basis points below what I would consider to be good performance, best in class performance. So those are the kinds of opportunities we have across the company as to whittle away at where we subpar in terms of what can exist and that gives us the headroom to continue to push the margins up. But looking backwards is the key part, I think I’ve -- especially you know guys look we sit here with a $300 billion backlog right. If you’re in the aviation business you got this immense backlog, we ought to be performing through and seeing where the margin opportunities are. We’ll do one more.
Unidentified Analyst
Just had a couple of follow-up questions on GE Digital, so in your Minds Machines Conference I think you mentioned that you could see by 2020 that you have $15 billion in revenue? You didn’t specifically talk about today but I was curious are you still comfortable with that number?
Jeff Immelt
That’s still the plan of those three parts.
Unidentified Analyst
Okay, and the follow-up is just you know I guess directionally of that 15 billion I guess what portion would be incremental service growth versus true software revenue and the reason I ask that question is just wondering if the 50 base points gross margin improvement guidance that you give does that include the software revenues or is that just…
Jeff Immelt
I think the 50 basis points is just kind of core growth, [Multiple Speakers] those margins on the software are all higher than what we have today, so.
Jeff Immelt
Okay, listen thanks, and we have got an opportunity we have got a couple of bars open so have a great holiday season. Thanks for coming.
Copyright policy: All transcripts on this site are the copyright of Seeking Alpha. However, we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists, and are excited to contribute to the democratization of financial information on the Internet. (Until now investors have had to pay thousands of dollars in subscription fees for transcripts.) So our reproduction policy is as follows: You may quote up to 400 words of any transcript on the condition that you attribute the transcript to Seeking Alpha and either link to the original transcript or to www.SeekingAlpha.com. All other use is prohibited.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL, CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION, AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS. IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.