General Electric Company (NYSE:GE)
Investor Day on GE Oil and Gas Conference Call
September 10, 2014 09:00 AM ET
Executives
Lorenzo Simonelli - CEO of GE Oil & Gas
Matt Cribbins - VP, Investor Communications
Rafael Santana - VP GE Oil & Gas Turbomachinery Solutions
Andrew Way - VP GE Oil & Gas Drilling & Surface
Rod Christie - CEO, GE Oil & Gas Subsea Systems
Hasan Dandashly - President and CEO of Downstream Technology Solutions at GE Oil & Gas
Eric Gebhardt - CTO and VP Engineering at GE Oil & Gas
Brian Palmer - CEO of GE Oil & Gas's Measurement & Control
Brian Worrell - CFO GE Oil & Gas
Analysts
Steve Winoker - Bornstein Research
Jeff Sprague - Vertical Research
Andrew Obin - Bank of America
Joe Ritchie - Goldman Sachs
Matt Cribbins
Alright. Good morning and welcome everyone. We are excited to host our first Investor Day on GE Oil and Gas. Couple of quick announcements before I hand over to Lorenzo and the team. This is a webcast and materials are available on our website. The team will come up and they will do a presentation for about an hour and half. We’ll then open it up for questions, and the team will be around after that here in the room if you would like to meet them. As a reminder, the presentation does contain forward-looking statements. It’s our view of the world as we see it today. As you know, things can change. Please look at them in that light. I would like to introduce our CEO of Oil and Gas, Lorenzo Simonelli.
Lorenzo Simonelli
Thank you very much, Matt, and welcome to what is going to be a great morning, and we’re looking forward to showing you what we have completed over the course of what is 20 years of being in the oil and gas industry. And I have been in this role for the last year, and what we have been focused on is really how we continue to grow this platform that has been a great franchise for GE. We're going to give you an update on what we see in the industry but also how we're addressing it from a perspective of the products and also the solutions that we are pulling together for the industry.
So, let's get started. 20 years ago, we acquired NuovoPignone. Where are we today? What have we pulled together? At the end of 2013, we have a portfolio that is $17 billion, 45,000 employees. We have a business that spans the oil and gas space. It goes from extraction to transportation to end-use. You can see that we focus on the subsea drilling and surface, turbo machinery compression, and down into the downstream. We'll walk you through all of these areas, and we'll walk you through what's important from an aspect of the customers and how we're matching up the customer needs.
Let's start off with the industry view though, what's important from an industry perspective and how do we see the industry. I know there is a lot of questions out there with regards to what's happening in the industry. We see the fundamentals of this industry as being solid and robust over the long term. Energy needs continue to be out there. As we have increasing population, over the long term there is going to be a need for energy, and that needs to be fueled - it needs to be fuel through oil and also through gas. And we see the annual growth rate over the course of the next few years being at 6% from a spend perspective.
We see that from our customer base, and we see that on an industry perspective. And we look at it in particular areas of focus as well. When we look at the subsea space, we know there is volatility out there, there are going to be cycles, but over the course of the next few years, the spend is going to be there from a 9% annual growth perspective.
We have got a focus in the subsea, and we'll walk you through that. On the unconventional oil and gas, you’ve seen what's happened in North America. We see opportunities in other areas of the globe that also will grow at 9% on an annual growth rate.
And then on the gas infrastructure side, LNG, the spend again 8%. We’ve built a great franchise on the gas infrastructure, and we’ll walk you through how we’ve built that and put it together for our customers.
So, what's important to our customers? What are customers looking for? How are we matching up? Their needs are around capital efficiency. They are looking to make sure that they have projects that are capital efficient. They are focusing on their bottom line. We’re there to make sure that we are providing them those solutions through standardized products, also productivity, productivity through the life cycle.
We also are making sure that we’re there from a technology perspective. When you look at the resources and you look at what’s happening in the industry, these resources are coming from more complex, more complicated areas. We’re out there with technology that we’re able to bring to the oil and gas industry and to our customers to make sure that we can meet the complex needs of this industry.
So, we're matching up and making sure we’re partnering with our customers as they go through the industry, and as their needs evolve, we are evolving with them. And we'll make sure that we touch on each of these as we go through the presentation.
So, how does it come together? How do we make sure that we align with the evolving needs? Over the course of the 20 years, we’ve built a franchise that is formidable from a perspective of products and services. These are acquisitions, as I mentioned, 20 years that started with NuovoPignone and have continued, and these acquisitions have exceeded pro forma on aggregate. And you can see, we’ve built a franchise on the subsea space, on the drilling and surface side, as you look at the Turbomachinery space, and also on the downstream. And that allows us to play along the value chain for our customers and the customers being the IOCs, the NOCs, and the independents, matching up what’s needed for them.
I wanted to share with you how we put this together. It’s not just the product portfolio we have, but let’s take a look at a specific project. How does it all come together and then how do we differentiate at GE, oil and gas. This is an example of a project that you would see on a subsea arena. What we’re able to do is as we start out with our drilling capability, we’ve got the blow out preventers, the risers. We’re there at the onset with the exploration side. We are then there partnering with the IOCs, the NOCs from the aspect of the subsea space with the trees, the manifolds. We are then there from the aspects of the LNG and the Turbomachinery equipment that we provide, and we’re also there further in the downstream. We are there from a refinery petrochemical perspective with the pumps, the valves that we’re able to provide. And the underpinnings are there from a measurement and control perspective, providing analytics and also information, and gathering productive information on all of the equipment we have in these projects. So, we’re able to provide a total view to our customers. These are simple, regular projects that we execute, and this is an example of what’s taking place in Africa, what’s taking place in Australia, but at GE, we add more. We’ve got the GE advantage of what we bring from being part of GE, and that means the capabilities that we bring in from GE Aviation, we bring in from the global research centers, 50,000 engineers are out there to provide benefits to our customers, provide them technology and capabilities from the rest of GE, that’s unique within this industry. We’ve got a 1,000 software engineers in San Ramon that are able to help our customers from a software perspective working on productivity and capabilities.
We’ve got the GE toolkit of simplification and fast works initiative that again enables us to focus on supply chain and making sure operational excellence is in the field and there for the customers. So I think as you put it in aggregate, we’re getting a lot more than just the products and the equipments that GE Oil and Gas has. Within a project landscape, we’re able to bring in the whole aspect of the GE DNA, which is formidable for our customers. This is what they value, and this is a differentiation as we go out there on the globe and we match it up with a commercial front end of also the global growth organization, which helps us make sure we’re close to our customers in each area of the globe. Our focus at GE Oil and Gas is on four specific areas.
It starts with operational excellence, making sure that we’re on time, at the right cost with the right quality; our customers demand that of us. They want to make sure that operational excellence is in the field all of the time. We want to ensure that also for the returns to our shareholders.
Secondly, differentiated products and services; making sure that we’ve got the right technology and the right capabilities to match up the complex resources, the projects that they’re going after, and the needs that they have in the field.
Thirdly, the capability and scale of a global footprint; making sure we’ve got the local facilities, the local people, and also we’re there at the right time when they need us. We’ve built that capability.
And fourthly, making sure that we’ve got the best people and a simple structure. You know, GE has got a simplification initiative. We've also got that at GE Oil & Gas, a focus on making sure that we stay lean, we stay fast moving, and we are there always for our customers. And we’ve got the best capable individuals and a great team that we pull together.
So, this our focus, and I am going to walk you through each of these elements as we go through it one by one. When we think about operational excellence, it starts with safety. Safety is paramount in the oil and gas industry. I think for all of you that have seen the oil and gas industry, you know safety is paramount for our customers. We start every meeting with a safety focus. We're in the industry three times better than the industry. We’ve got a focus on safety. It's important to our customers. It's important to us. It's important that our employees return home safely. EHS is critical in this industry and we’ve placed it at the forefront.
We also make sure that we're there from an operational excellence of supply chain, making sure the on-time delivery and the right cost focus. I've mentioned to you the aspect of being on time and having a cost focus is important for our customers. We've been able to bring down the cycle time of our product deliveries.
You can see our blow out preventers, we've reduced the cycle time by 40%. On the flow of our parts, we've been able to bring down from weeks to days the delivery of our parts out to our customers. This is key. When we look at expanding facilities, we've expanded capacity. Again, a focus on where our customers need us, and you can see the North America capacity that has been increased as well as their new facilities that we will walk through in Brazil, in Angola, that have been investments that we've made and improving capabilities.
This again is the GE D&A, it's the aspect of FastWorks, it's the aspect of the material knowledge that we're able to bring in. We actually received an award from Apex, which is an innovation award on the material capabilities that we're able to bring in from a GE perspective. There is a focus on lean, there is a focus on cycle time, this helps address the needs of our customer from a capital efficiency perspective. It also helps to ensure from a shareholder perspective, we improve our returns as well.
As you look at execution on projects, you have heard about the oil and gas industry being plagued by project delays. We've got our focus on making sure that we have the best project execution, making sure that we've got skilled individuals with the right project domain and know how to execute a project.
If you look at our subsea project, there will be different steps that have numerous articles and definitions. A particular project may have 28,000 articles that have to be assembled, and have to be defined. We've created tools, we've digitized them, so that you go from weeks to minutes and being able to assess them in the field. That's a capability that we're bringing to the industry. And we've been able to improve our first time yield by 2x in subsea over the course of the last few years, again improving the capability that’s out there for our customers and also making sure that we meet their needs. Better project execution out there in the field is critical.
As we look at capital efficiency, it’s also important that we focus on standardization. What you have pictured here as an example of a DVXT tree. This is a subsea tree that we launched a couple of weeks ago at ONS in Stavanger. This is a standardized tree that now enables us to reduce the cycle time. 18 months used to be the cycle time, 30% faster than industry norm. We’re able to bring down the working capital. We’re able to provide to our customers in the field a standardized product that now they have on hand. They’re able to take from well-to-well, huge advantages for them and later on we will walk you through some other examples of what we’re doing on the subsea space, again standardization helping to drive the capital efficiency, both for our customers and ourselves.
And as we go forward, we’ve got a big focus on technology, differentiated products and services. And at GE, we like to look at the GE store. We’ve got the capabilities within GE Oil & Gas to provide the products and the equipments that I spoke about before, but we can provide so much more, because we’ve got the capabilities from GE. And this is a chart that shows what we can provide within the subsea space. You can look at the capabilities from the manifolds, the trees that we have in our portfolio, but you can also look at the aspects that we gain from our energy management business, the motors, from our power and water business, you can look at the capabilities we have from our aviation business with regards to material capabilities and also advanced monitoring capabilities, our healthcare business from a diagnostic perspective.
This is the benefit that we have from a GE perspective, this is the advantage that we provide to our customers from a standpoint of being in the industry and being able to provide the technology. Here is an example as you look at differentiated technology. This is the first offshore floating LNG. This is in partnership with Shell. It is a project that’s being executed and this brings together free capabilities from GE. We have the capabilities of our turbo machinery business with the compressors. We have the capabilities from our subsea business, with the flexible rises. We have the capability from our measurement controls business with valves. Again this is the power of being part of GE and this is meeting the technological requirements that are out there.
We’ve got 7,000 engineers in GE Oil and Gas but we’ve also got the 50,000 engineers across GE. We’ve got the research centers that are able to assist us. So this huge capabilities as go forward. This is an example with Shell and this is an example of being able to match the needs of our customers as they go to new frontiers. I mentioned the aspect of complex resources, complex resources of going to new depths, new parameters of PSI’s requirements. This is a blow out preventer that goes to 20k PSI. We are in collaboration with Maersk and with BP on the development of this product.
It’s not just a blow out preventer that goes to new requirements; it's also a smart blow out preventer. It has the analytics; it has the data; it has the control systems that we’ve taken to Mark VI that actually enable it to also be predictive.
Looking at the lifecycle productivity, looking at the capability of diagnostics on a blow out preventer. It helps our customers; it also provides more information; helps to reduce unplanned downtime. That's the focus of the industry and that's where we are focused with the new product that we are launching, huge capability that we're bringing into the marketplace as we go forward; and also matching up with the new projects that are out there from a deepwater perspective. We see this as a great area for growth going forward. And we’ve got the capability across the globe to match where the growth is.
The empowerment and the people, we’ve assembled a great franchise. You’ve seen the products; you’ve seen the businesses we’ve integrated. When you look at the capabilities, the global footprint is second to none. And we’ve made investments in the places where growth is taking place. And we continue to also make investments where growth is taking place.
You can see in Brazil, capabilities we’ve added from a subsea perspective a Turbomachinery and have measurement and controls perspective. Over 2,000 employees that are dedicated to making sure we satisfy the customer needs in Brazil. Big growth opportunity with the spend that’s taking place there. Angola and Nigeria, number of new projects that are going to be taking place in the future, investments that we've added from a capability of matching up with the needs there. And Indonesia, Southeast Asia, another area of growth for us. We’re matching where our customers need us, making sure that we've got the right people in the right places with the right capabilities.
As you look at it, we're matching that up with making sure that we've got a focus on cost. We've got our focus on simplification, that's a GE initiative. And we've made sure that we're translating the GE initiative into GE oil and gas, taking the best. We've brought down our SG&A and we are targeting to have brought down our SG&A 250 basis points by the end of this year in the last couple of years, making sure that we focus on what's value added. It’s not just on the SG&A; it's also on the product cost arena. You've got example here of where we've been able to bring down the actual product cost. You've got a compressor example here where we've improved the performance for our customer, we've actually reduced the weight, the size and we’ve brought down the cost; a benefit to our customer and also a benefit to us from our return on our shareholders.
You've got an example on the drilling risers and also on the beam pumps. As we’ve acquired the capabilities and we’ve integrated them into GE, we’ve had a focus on making sure that product costs are coming down and that again is a way in which we are reaching out to our customers and we are making oil and gas business better and more efficient.
So, all of this translates into a financial performance that we’re proud of. And we see it being in line with the expectations. And we’ve got a focus on making sure that we deliver to our shareholders. We’re bringing in a focus on going after the new opportunities, the new areas of growth within the industry. We’re focused on the improving return, and we’re going to continue outpacing the industry growth and returning to the shareholders with double-digit returns. And when we look at returns, we’ve got a focus on improving margins. As you can see for the first half, we’ve improved margins by 60 basis points. That’s in addition to the improvements that you saw in 2013 of 20 basis points. And as we continue to mature the integrations, as we continue to have the focus on driving product standardization, the cost out on the products, as we continue to simplify our systems, we see those margins continuing to improve. And we’ve got a future to continue to lead the GE portfolio on returns and deliver to our shareholders.
And it all comes together by having a great team, a team that’s focused; a team that’s dedicated and passionate; industry experts. We’ve got 45,000 employees out there and we’ve got some industry leading experts that we’ve brought into the business, and we’ve got a number of them here today that are going to walk you through the various business segments. And to kick it off, I’ll pass it over to Rafael Santana to talk us about gas infrastructure. Rafael?
Rafael Santana
Thank you, Lorenzo. Hey hello everyone, it’s great to be here with you today. On Turbomachinery solutions we took that business into $5 billion in revenues last year. This is a business that really marks I would say our first big step into oil and gas, that goes back to 1994 when we had acquisition of Nuovo Pignone, 20 years later we have grown this business organically by more six times. We have here a portfolio of solutions that really expands across the value chain of gas infrastructure, when I look at it we are especially focused in Turbomachinery in the upstream and the midstream, later on you are going to be hearing from [Ashley] on the downstream piece of it. Some of these solutions really speak for what we will call power gen but also compressor packages that go on both onshore but they go into offshore applications you got to be thinking here of products such as drivers, such as gas turbines, electric motors and compressors we apply those into onshore into places like LNG, into pipelines but we go all the way to offshore into FPSOs, floating LNG and various other floating devices out there. It’s portfolio that we’ve got a large installed base over 24,000 machines that really allow us to have a good way to partner with customers on maintaining and getting most of the availability and reliability of those.
With that in mind I thought about spending sometime with you here on some spaces that are meaningful to us and they will still push a lot of momentum as we look forward. Let me start first with LNG, I want you to think really about multi-billion dollar projects here again we provide the turbines and the compressors that will actually compress the gas, liquefy it so it gets transported. I noted on this space, you got to really have a good products that have the improvement and that have been referenced in this kind of application. And here we are proud of ourselves with a portfolio that really no water company has.
Aspects here over winning in this space, is having a track record of executing through complex projects. Think here you're sometimes the only with multiple EPCs remote locations, you're connecting here thousands of suppliers to bring this projects alive on time.
So, here we've positioned ourselves well and so we continue to change the space over and over. A couple of things I want to mention to you here today. We are the first ones to bring turbine from the aviation space into this space right here. Again, when I talk to you about how improving products and reference products and as we're doing that so I got to tell you, we're increasing out time and increasing efficiency for customers in this space.
This is coming a real and we showcase as you think of the first export LNG terminal in the U.S. that's going to carry that kind of technology. So, bringing aviation technology into this space.
Some of the audience thinks they're important in this space here when I speak about the project capabilities. It's been over more than 20 years that we really invested on not just getting the expertise but getting the tools to be able to manage through complexity. Here to attend Oracle’s Annual Meeting, you'll hear there about us as being the first ones to really partner with them back as early as 2002 on developing an ERP system that allows us to connect back with thousands of suppliers, EPCs, shipyards and being able to deliver here on time.
This is an industry that’s again now we’ve positioned ourselves well. And so as we look into the growth expense I heard about I think we are well positioned to grow.
Our business goes beyond LNG offshore itself. So an important piece of the business, in fact it falls to add offshore hence LNG that calls for about 50% of our business. As you look into offshore, there is a segment that especially made a lot of progress in the last couple of years. We have to go back and really sit down with customers, reengineer some of our packages, for both here power generation and compression, but to really make sure we could remove footprint and recruits remove weight to make sure those were competitive.
This has allowed us last year alone to go back into the North Sea with companies like (inaudible) with companies like Statoil and after seven years not selling into the North Sea, we're back selling in the North Sea. This states that we continue to invest, we've been depreciating ourselves, when looking to the last 24 months, and we’re growing faster in the industry this year. And the way we are removing again our costs on both footprint and weight. One piece is partnering with the customers; the other piece is injecting technology.
I think here on again bringing aviation technology with lighter materials, but materials that are able to stand harsh conditions, the other piece of it is how do you remove gear boxes and established oil free systems that allow customers to have lower CapEx, lower OpEx and lower manning at those platforms.
We haven't stopped here in this space, we've built from the expertise we have on LNG and we're partnering with customers on developing the first floating LNG solutions out there. We’re partnered with both Petronas and Shell and this is really coming all together with great differentiation.
I spoke to you a lot about here equipment but services is a big piece of our business, a scenario that we’ve had a lot of focus. If I go back to 2002 this was maybe 20% of our business. Services is today close to 50% of our business with over 24,000 units out there of which we have at least 5,000 gas turbines. This has allowed us unique ways to partner with customers on injecting technology and upgrading those assets as we look forward.
One of the things we’re doing is different here in LNG per say effectively injecting technology with more sensors, with more analytics, we’re allowing ourselves to partner with customers in a complete different way. So we’re well customers now to potentially run equipment harder during certain periods of times so they’re able to get more output out of those, but you do that in a way that is still able to lease on how the equipment is running and we’re able to guarantee both availability and reliability of those assets, generates more value for the customer but also generates more value for us.
As I walk you through LNG offshore and services this is a good chunk of our business. It’s a space that’s roughly between $10 billion to $12 billion overall a year. And though we’ve always really looked deep into it how could we grow beyond that. And so what I am about talk to you here it’s something we’re going to be announcing a forum at the end of this month. One of the opportunities we’ve had was to really looking to have the drivers that were below 20 megawatts. This is a space that goes along would opened up to us $5 billion so think that if we could basically grow by 50% the space we could play in today. So we’ve made that decision two years ago, we have partnered with customers on co-creating this product line, we have orders for it, we are delivering the first turbines in third quarter next year this is going to be presented at the Turbomachinery symposium on the later part of this month.
One great thing here is how we’ve this too, traditionally you would have taken anywhere from five to seven years to be developing a product like this, by applying fast works concepts we’ve allowed ourselves to really use tools like 3D printing on getting faster to prototyping so we could test and have a product being developed. So we’re very proud of what we are accomplishing in here and it really opens up a lot of opportunities for us to grow.
Talking about partnering with customers I have got to bring it up to you a press release we are doing today. This is the first world scale electric LNG plant being done and it’s being done in North America and Texas so we have a press release on this today. It really speaks for all the value we can bring from GE not just expertise that we bring again from the LNG side, we’re bringing here equipment and we’re bringing technology from both energy management with power conversion, with power and water and we are bringing financing to make this project come live.
With that being said we feel good about the spaces, good growth. We feel we are well positioned with the products and with the solutions to beat the growth expectations ahead, we’ve invested in additional products to really open up more opportunities for us to grow. With that we’ve really had a lot of focus on eliminating costs, bringing more productivity and that's paying off. We feel we're well positioned to deliver value now and in the near future.
With that, I want to introduce you to Hasan Dandashly. Thank you.
Hasan Dandashly
Thank you Rafael. My name is Hasan Dandashly as Rafael said and I lead our Downstream Technology Solutions business. This business was about $1.5 billion last year. We provide products and after market services for the refining, petrochemical and the evolving distributive gas or downstream business.
The solutions that we provide include similar to what Rafael described compression solutions. So, we have compressors, we have gas and we drivers. The drivers could be gas turbines, steam turbines, motors, we also have pumps and valves and all the services that go with these. So, this is kind of the business overall.
Today, what I would like talk to you about is the evolving growth of gas as a downstream fuel. When Rafael in his first page talked to you, he showed a continuum of gas infrastructure that goes all the way from upstream to downstream. Gas has always been used in downstream but what we see now is an increasing role for gas and downstream. We see that LNG and CNG are becoming a downstream. LNG used to be an upstream midstream fuel just get the gas transported. Now, we see LNG being used in end applications.
In order for this to happen, three things have to come together and we'll describe them here. First from a gas source there are many new gas sources that are coming online. The unconventional finds starting in the United States and then going into many other parts of the world are increasing the gas availability. There are many new finds, the East (inaudible), Mozambique and many other places where gas is being discovered in the world. There is a lot of flared gas that is being flared out there. 40% of the gas generated in the world is flared today and 30% of the gas is generated in the Bakken is flared today and that gas could be used.
And there are many stranded gas fields that historically have been out of reach and could not be utilized.
If you get to the second factor is the new applications or the new ways of using this gas. Transportation that's locomotives, heavy duty trucks, marine. It's estimated that if we’re able to convert only 5% of the worldwide use of diesel for transportation that will generate $16 billion of savings for our industry.
The other application is distributed power generation. There are many places in the world that don't have electricity, they don't have it, because they don't have -- the grid cannot get there and the fuel cannot get there. With our distributed power capability from our power and water business, we'll be able to bring power to the spaces of the world.
But to bring the power, you need fuel. And again, it's estimated here if you convert 20% of that power from diesel to LNG, you will be able to save $5 billion for the industry and the list goes on and on. So, all of these new applications of gas are possible, but you need to get the gas to them. So, critical element that connects this network is what we call the virtual pipeline. In order to get gas and be passed from source to destination, it required major investment and pipelines or it required made big LNG tankers that moved it across the seas.
Today with the virtual pipeline, we’re able to build incremental solutions. So we're able to liquefy or compress very close to the source and we're able to move to the gas in small ships or in trucks in LNG or in CNG form to the point of destination. By doing that, it costs a lot less to build it and you can build it incrementally and it is a flexible solution. And in many parts of the world, it’s a lot more secure than building a pipeline, because as trucks and ships are moving, you could reroute them against hotspots and get the gas to its destination. So, all these three elements coming together will increase the use of gas and bring it closer to the edge of gas.
One critical element of developing or providing the solution is what we call small-scale LNG. As I said before, LNG is moving from being purely an upstream, midstream phenomena to an end fuels. In order to do that, you have to be able to liquefy it close to the source and deliver it to the customers.
With small scale LNG, we’re able to provide turnkey LNG plant. So, this is a complete LNG plant that is modularized, fully integrated, fully tested in our factories and delivered to our customers. Once delivered, it could come up in as short as two weeks and it is fairly simple to operate. And it is modular in nature, so after the gas field is no more producing you could actually pick this thing up and move it to another location. These plants go anywhere from 25,000 gallons per day to 600,000 gallons per day. We have combined our expertise in LNG that we have gained over the long years that we’ve been in this space with the expertise that we gained from the sale off acquisitions in order to provide these solutions to our customers. We have established installations of 11 plants and 30 plants that are under development today.
One place where we are applying this technology very well is in Indonesia. In Indonesia, we bring our technical expertise, we bring our local know-how, the GE people that have been in Indonesia for a long time and we bring our expertise from our distributed power business to work together with our customers in order to provide solutions. Indonesia, as you know has thousands of islands that will never be connected by a grid. So we are looking at -- we have an MOU with the customer to where we are -- hopefully we’ll build 2,000 CNG stations by 2025 in order to utilize their gas for transportation. Additionally, there are plans to utilize 20 plus stranded gas fields to generate 2.5 gigawatts of power. And that would require the construction of up to 20 plus small scale LNG plants. So great examples of how we are bringing different parties together and how we are bringing our local know-how in order to deliver solutions to our customers.
So further on partnering that it takes in order to deliver this, this morning Statoil made an announcement on the work that we are doing with them and ferrous in the Bakken. We started the pilot a while ago. Some of you might have seen the advertisements or the news clips that were done on TV around this.
As I said before, the Bakken today flares 30% of the gas that is produced; it generates more light than New York City at night when you look at it from space. It’s a significant issue for the industry and for our customers. So, we’ve partnered with (inaudible). So, this is a company that specializes in moving molecules and hard terrain. We brought our technology for CNG compression; we’re able to capture the gas at the point of flare, treat the gas, compress it, move it to the rigs, power the rigs with it and save on the diesel fuel. So you are saving on pollution; you are saving on the gas that you are flaring and not utilizing and you are actually saving on the rigs.
So Statoil announced today that they will be moving from the pilot to full implementation powering their six rigs and their one frac unit. And we’re in discussions with many other customers in the Bakken and the Permian Basin in order to advance the solution with them.
On the transportation side, we have again an agreement between GE Capital Fleet Services and VNG.co. VNG.co is a company that specializes in developing an infrastructure for transporting for fueling. And together we're working to say how do we speed up the adoption of CNG in light duty NGV vehicles. So, together again we’re bringing our expertise in order to help develop this market.
And in wrap up, I would say it is estimated that gas increase will increase its role in global energy production, it will go from 20% in 1990 to 26% in 2025.
A significant part of that is the increased use of gas as in downstream fuel. And in order to get that to happen, it will require technology, it will require local know-how it will require partnerships. And GE is working together to bring all these elements together in order to continue to create this market and advance it. And with that, I'll pass it over to Andrew.
Andrew Way
Great. Thank you, Hasan. And good morning everyone. My name is Andrew Way. I lead drilling and surface business within oil and gas; $3.8 billion portfolio. And as Lorenzo said, I am going to take you through a little bit today on what we’re doing onshore and the unconventional space. And also as Lorenzo pointed out, this is a portfolio of companies that we’ve acquired over the last few years and we’re building a terrific portfolio to advance our technology in the oilfield space.
First of all, we love this space. It's an industry that's growing. We estimate about a 6% growth over the next few years. With the portfolio that we today, we're operating at about a $100 billion segment, so a terrific space that's growing and opportunity for us to grow in a market that's spending money. And we’ve seen terrific growth in North America and Canada and so our focus has been in the unconventional space, we're also seeing terrific opportunities in the Middle East region and Latin America and more opportunity to come over the next few years.
If you look at our portfolio, as we think about the space that we're (inaudible) from an expiration, we have drilling equipment that helps our customers at the forefront and we have drilling measurement equipment that we acquired when we purchase the Soundex portfolio, we’ve put those products together as we move into the development phase, we obviously have the surface wellhead business and the land based business that we acquired first with Vetcogray with the products that we acquired and then also with well support business from WoodGroup we're able to bring that portfolio together and we now have one pressure control business that's offering surface wellheads both internationally and globally around the world.
And then we have a wireline and logging portfolio that also came from the WoodGroup acquisition and that's helping us also in the development phase.
I'm going to talk a little more today about what we're doing in the production phase and the artificial lift was clearly a portfolio that we acquired and we moved into. As well as that we also bring oilfield power and compression, power to lift in the oilfield, we leverage a lot of that technology that we have in other parts of the business to bring power to the oilfield. And so as we're increasing our scope and we have opportunities to scale this business, we are continuing to bring value to the offerings to our customers.
As I think about our onshore strategy, we've really being perceiving an interest to build out the industry in the area of well performance. And we've now developed a platform by acquiring the artificial lift portfolio in 2011. We are integrating that into the GE system, we've bringing a lot of the toolkit that you are going to hear later from Eric on technology from R&D and from our analytics capability. We then acquired Lufkin which has been, just over a year we’ve been bringing that into the portfolio the integration activities are through and we’re now bringing those two businesses together and we’ve been actively working on this performance enhancement portfolio that we called well performance services. And really it’s a terrific opportunity because we now have the full spectrum of the artificial lift. We have the broadest portfolio of downhole products and capabilities. We’re increasing our customer penetration. We’ve had terrific cost energies as Lorenzo talked about and not just the cost side we’ve also been able to bring customer synergies to the industry in this area. If you think about the ESP and the lifecycle I’ll talk about in a second we’ve been able to introduce the Lufkin product to many of our ESP customers and vice versa. And so by applying the GE technology from an R&D we’ve been able to bring technologies on coatings and bearings and really make the products more reliable. We’re also been working harder to integrating the automation and the production optimization software. This really is the critical element of the future of a full lifecycle well and by bringing the technology together that we have that, that was talked about a little earlier from San Ramone by bringing the optimization and product software capabilities that we acquired through Lufkin with Zenith and also the activities that we have in Brian’s business with smart signal we’ve really been able to provide this common platform in order for us to build this technology globally.
And then as we’re thinking about the model, many of us came from different parts where we think about lifecycle and service mind set and as we think about the oil field model we’re moving from more of a product sale to more of an outcome based and so we’re aligning in our models to more of an outcome based and we’re seeing terrific service for that. So, as we think about this portfolio I believe it’s a great foundation and a platform for us to continue to grow in the space and focusing on customer outcomes is key. As I talked about earlier as we think about the full lifecycle of the well, this is no different than how we think about the lifecycle in aviation or in the gas turbine and if you think about the products at the well the aggregates of the time moving from ESPs to wireless now we have the capability for our customers to plan interventions, to plan the various aspects of the technology that’s required down hole we are able to bring over the top and also down hole sensing and control and automation from the various parts of the business so we’ve built that platform we’re able to provide oil field power and compression and we’ve got some great success where we take some of the biogas and put it into products where we can provide electricity at the oil field at the site and then asset well and optimization we’ve got some terrific story and success around that.
And the case study I have here as an example is a customer in the Middle East we’ve been operating for a little while we’ve been working through the customers some of the challenges for the well has been changing formation and as we think about the products and services that we can bring, we are not able to bring equipment that both talks through the visualization of what’s happened in the well, been able to optimize and model through sensing and more importantly to our smart signal of products we are able to predict maintenance and activities for intervention for a 10,000 barrel of oil a day 5% production is over $15 million of additional production so it’s real value that would bring into our customers. So we are excited about this space, we are excited about where we are with the acquisition and the integration process right now. We’re increasing our presence in the upstream value chain, we now have the broadest list portfolio and lifecycle offering and more importantly we are utilizing decades of GE reliability experience, bringing our knowledge into the industry of how we take the reliability, safety and knowledge of our products to the oil field. So with that I would like to introduce Rod Christie.
Rod Christie
Thanks Andrew. So, my name is Rod Christie. I am responsible for the Subsea systems business inside oil and gas which is roughly a $3 billion business, growing up inside the portfolio.
Earlier on Lorenzo mentioned that there was some volatility in the subsea space but we really see the future growth in this space to be very good, very strong around 9%. Just to [ground] on why we see that? If you go back over the last 10 years, more than 50% of the main finds have been offshore. Go back and look at the trend a little bit more detail. For last five years, more than 50% of all of the major finds globally have been in deepwater.
Today, roughly 50% of the IOC’s production comes from deepwater reserves and going to 2020, global production the new reserves that are going to brought online, the expectation is 40% of that will come from deepwater reserves. So, we see this space is being incredibly attractive and the growing space that goes beyond 2020 out 2030 and evolve the industry.
The other thing you have to think about is, this is an area where customers deploy this technology with the view of 25 years in some cases like Statoil 40 years plus of operation, so it requires world class high end technology. It requires tremendous ability to execute complex projects that scale globally and it requires the ability to support the customer through the lifecycle of the field in operation with the services capability, all things that really play to GE's DNA.
Now today we really think of the challenges that customers have around capital efficiency. But also this is a relatively new space, even though there is a lot of activity. Today, there are about 4,000 wells that are in operations and be in operation for more than five years.
There are still new technologies, there are still new service model, there are still new capabilities that got to be developed and brought to market. So it is a very exciting space. I want to take you through in the next couple of slides, that couple of areas where we see opportunities to grow our business. And the couple of areas where we are very much focused around how do we drive the issues that customers are facing today with capital efficiency.
Lorenzo talked about our project execution capabilities and that's really the core of being able to be reliable and drive a very, very complex project through a three, four, five year cycle. The other thing that is behind it is driving a customization and complexity in an ever growing technology requirement for Subsea production systems.
So, DVXT is the latest addition to our structured family of trees, another product that we have. And today we can provide Deepwater shallow, medium water trees, horizontal, vertical all to a structured program. I'll give you an example on the shallow water vertical Christmas tree, which is at the other end from our Deepwater vertical it's a differentiated product, it's 30% lighter, we can deliver in 12 months from order to installation.
Because it's lighter, it can be installed by a much wider range of vessel, giving a lot more flexibility to our customers. It has differentiated installation capabilities, doesn't require a diver, so again derisk filtration and live the weather window to open for a comfort the other way that in shallow waters. For us structured products allowed us to lane out the supply chain, less way reduce our cost. So it’s a win-win on both sides. The control part which is the orange block that you see on the top right hand side is probably today our most structured product. We’ve removed 80% of engineering that’s required to produce that and bring it into our customer’s applications.
Likewise, it’s very modular, it’s customizable. We can build redundancy into a system that a customer requires it and remove it very, very simply. It allows us to build configurated so in the ITO process in the commercial cycle we can de-risk what we are actually costing we can get a (inaudible) line with much more hours in a much shorter period of time. So again we’re being much more responsive to what the customer requires.
Another products to note on here which is out in the market and at the other end of our scale from complexity point of view is our wellhead systems. Our MS-700 well had been opened for a number of years but over those years the complexity and the part numbering has grown and more of these customers required different components and different configurations we view the same process and collect that from. So to give you an example the casing structure for our wellhead we have 63 different designs we have classed that to six. It allowed us again work with the supply chain drive cost side of the product drive sale side product. We’ve taken our bid cycle from six weeks to six hours. We’ve taken our delivery cycle proven already from 52 weeks to 35 weeks and we’re on the path to get it in the 23 weeks. In Asia this is a tremendous winner for us. And we’ve seen great success for the first half of the year.
Moving to a new area and I have to say subsea (inaudible) concept isn’t new. We would have sourced people to deploy subsea separate 15 years ago into commercial application. But I think today what we really feel with the dynamics of the industry the longer offset to deeper water this is a technology space that’s really coming of age and planning it’s place and time. Today if you think back to the slide that Lorenzo talked about of the GE shop the net beneficiary of the GE shop. The picture here is a bluesea subsea compressor, it’s a largest most powerful compressor in this space. I get that from Rafael I don’t have to partner, I don’t have to buy it from a competitor I don’t have to buy it from the market, I can partner, I can pace the development between the two of us, likewise with Brian I could get sensing diagnostic software, I don’t go outside I don’t have to have the core DNA I work with a specialist who does that for me.
Under the umbrella of engineering teams Eric can pace that across the whole organization we can also step outside of that and think of GE with respect to our power and water business have the capability of trying to mark out to work on water technologies and also with (inaudible) around the power conversion area looking at subsea distribution, subsea power and motors we’ll do all things that bring under the GE banner, it’s a huge advantage that I think we bring in this space that differentiates us substantially from all of our competitors I don’t need to partner to do this, 70% of technology and most of our customers will need is already in this space.
The thing that will make this and enable this going forward is a structuring program you look at the model along their compression cooling power pumping of the separations other ones we couldn’t set on the page we can bring that in individual components or bundle it up into a very complex solution and system engineer that within one family and get that out derisk with some very complex technologies embedded subsea. The other thing I think happen is we can de-risk the modernization and the deployment of this technology subsea, both in interim stage and also through its life of operation.
If you think of our aviation business, our power generation business, healthcare, transportation, they all have very, very sophisticated and very well developed monitoring and diagnostics capabilities. The capabilities, some of those capabilities were also developed through [Brent] business and through our sulfur and COE in San Ramon. All of that I can bring straight into the space and help customers realize the performance enhancement and optimize these kind of systems as they go subsea and opens up arenas for new services activity which leads me improve into services area.
Our services business grew up predominately focused on installation, some inspection, repair and spare parts. So, today if I compare my percentage of revenue from services with the typical GE business, it’s not where I want it to be. It's not really where we should be. We look at the model, we look at what's happening in the marketplace and really we think that the entitlement for a subsea well stack is roughly dollar for dollar for well stack between the installation -- of between installation capital phase and the OpEx phase with life of operation.
The areas where we focus around subsea intervention, monitoring diagnostics and optimization production recovery. So, the picture on the right-hand side of the page is a product that we launched last year, at the end of last year which is a completion work over system which enable the customer to go in intervene on both the tree set and the well and recover some of the lost production capability that's happened over the life of the operation. We can do that time and time again.
And also if you think on the control system and essentially on diagnostics we have, it allows us to bring a huge amount of data back into the business, both to re-inject into new products and also to look at different ways to manage the intervention activities and further enhance the recovery rates.
We’ve not just looked at new areas; we've also looked at the traditional areas. So, we’ve taken vacant process from our aviation business into our core activities of repair. So, we've managed to drive cycle time down, and give you a example. Two customers we’re working with in North Sea, we've taken the refurbishment time for their trees from 10 months to 5 weeks. So that means that they can take the tree off into -- and run a vessel in the field, do the intervention before they take the vessel life the field and given the tree back and it goes back on into operation. Less capital cost for them, better efficiency, lower operational cost from running two vessels over campaign.
We've taken that same concept, applied it in Norway, we applied it in Brazil, we’ve applied in Nigeria. Then the last case, it actually negated the needs for a customer to go out and buy ten new trees, but actually movement for the peer area which reduced their cost is actually a higher revenue or higher margin activity for us.
So, we think this is a great space for us going forward and something we expect to get far more into an alignment with other parts of GE with the representative share being somewhat over 30% of our revenues in subsea coming from services.
Over the presentation, I hope I’ve given you a bit of a flavor for why we think the subsea space is a great space to be in and also why we think the space plays the GE strength.
Over the next few years, we really think this is going to be an area with a lot of innovation, a lot of new technology to come in and exciting space to be. So with that, I am going to pass it over to Eric.
Eric Gebhardt
Thank you, Rod. Pushing the boundaries of technology is at the core of what we do in GE oil and gas. And we’re very proud of the capabilities of our 7,000 engineers that we have within our team. But it’s also a good thing to be able to lean into the 50,000 engineers across the rest of the General Electric Company. And Lorenzo and Rod and the other speakers have done a great job really laying out how we leverage the technologies from aviation, power and water, the other parts of the businesses. But we also have the ability to lean into our research centers, which helps us work the fundamental level across the General Electric Company and distribute that technology across the businesses.
We have 7 global research centers across the globe and one of these in Oklahoma City is dedicated to oil and gas and it’s great to have this center to work with this first principal technologies, pull it in, help us co-develop with our customers into real-life applications. We also have an advance manufacturing center which helps us leverage the technologies across the whole company to advance the state-of-the-art of manufacturing.
Now, we have a process in order to deliver these technologies. So, we look at the enabling technologies and new technology introductions. And with that we understand the technologies we’re looking out to kind of scouting out the new technologies, we pull those in, we understand those. We look for critical applications for where we can apply these across the business. From there, we pull it into a new product introduction process where we take this technology and then put it into a product and go through the paces, do the validation, make sure we understand it and we have the reliability, the performance, the safety that we really need to put it out in the industry.
Following that we look to bring it out in a large project with a customer. And this is where we look to system level effects, how do we drive system for higher performance and putting this new technology in there and then bring it out with our customers, making sure we have the right reliability and the right safety as we roll this out. And so this is really the key to trying to deliver at scale. Because when we roll out technologies, they are going to be at scale because of what we do in the oil and gas industry.
Now a couple of technologies that are very exciting to us are on the page. Materials is something that’s been core to General Electric since we started. And it’s something that when we look to specialties in the oil and gas space around corrosion, around aberration, around erosion, high pressures these are things that we are very good at. And it’s something where we can bring technology quickly to the industry, a couple of examples. When we first acquired the Wood Group’s ESP, Electric Submersible Pump division, one of the concerns was around the erosion aberration. We were able to take technology that we had, coating material technology; put it into the pumps and this allowed us to get a 10x improvement in erosion and aberration capabilities. These are especially important when we look at these electric submersible pumps in unconventional spaces where there is more sand production taking place there. And so this really gave us the technical advantage with this area.
The other was in the subsea trees. The valves in these trees are under very high pressure. And more customers are moving towards non-lubricated greaseless valves. By using some of our coating what we call diamond liquid coatings, we were able to go greaseless, get these valves qualified through thousands of cycles rather than hundreds of cycles and really bring down the size, bring down the weight of these and bring down the cost and increase the reliability of these out in the subsea space.
With system modeling and simulation, many of the technology we’ve worked on, we have to model and the more models we can run, the better our tests can run, the faster we can dent technology. With modeling and simulation we lean into the high power computing capabilities across GE and we're able to run the simulations faster, get work done. And we look at things like find an element modeling, computational fluid dynamics other types of modeling that really helps us move forward.
A couple of examples. When we look at the compression technology, a couple of technologies here, one in supersonic where we can use higher speeds in our compressors and supersonic technology allows us to bring the weight down, bring the cost down in compressors, bring the size down of compressors by using these techniques. We also use it for wet gas compression to understand the flow of water liquid molecules that are going through there, understanding how to set up the compressors properly so we get lesser erosion in there. Big advancements in this area.
Industrial internet is something that plays well across all oil and gas. We are able to invent the sensors and the signal processing that collect data leveraging Brian’s business in MNC, and by doing that we get access to more information. This more information will then create the analytics and the algorithms around this based on our domain knowledge. And the domain knowledge is both in the equipment side or emerged in the physics of the equipment but also understanding the process and how our customers use this equipment.
And then with that we can also utilize the Software Center of Excellence in San Ramon 1,000 software engineers which create a platform that we can plug into. And this improves the user experience for our customers, the usability for our customers and also allows us to scale this up, so we do it once and then leverage it across the entire organization.
And the last one around the advanced manufacturing is an area that is very exciting. And many times when we talk about advanced manufacturing it jumps right to additive manufacturing. But there is a lot more to it than that in our point of view. If we go back to some of the processes we've been doing for hundreds of years around coding and cladding and other areas there, many of the processes today are thermal processes, we melt the metal, we put it on there and have thermal effects that can cause distortion and cause heat effected zones for post processing or post machine take place.
We're driving efficiencies through new coating processes, catalytic coating processes like electrolysis, where you can dip it into the fluid, it coats itself, you have great properties there afterwards no re-machining cuts down cycle time. Where things like coat spray we're actually spray the material on there instead of having to do a melting process, so it’s really driving the quality, driving the cycle time.
Virtual manufacturing is also very exciting. With the advanced three models we have of our equipment, we can simulate the manufacturing process, how all the pieces fit what’s the most optimal way to do this. How do you have the right tools and machines inside your shops to do this quickly to cut down cycle time.
But we are also now moving this out into the field. So, our field engineers who have better tooling, have better processes, have better understanding. So that we can drive the quality and cycle time for our customers.
The additive manufacturing is really exciting as an engineer, because it removes design constraints. We think about the way we've been thought to do engineering, the way our processes have worked around engineering, there been the constraints around understanding kind of internal passages of a machine, can a tooling work properly and it's been a mindset that we've had now we can release that. Where we can go ahead and have the internal passages that we wanted the curvatures that we wanted on these parts and it’s allow us to really get more out of our products and it’s also changed the way we’ve thought about how to design within an additive versus a proactive process we only add the material that matters rather than we only take away the material until it’s no longer cost effective. So we’re thinking more lattice structures different shapes different ways of approaching things will further enhance and advance the way we do engineering. So a whole new thinking process taking place and being able to lean into the advance manufacturing center of excellence really helps us advance as a company in this area. So a lot of great technologies coming along here that will help our customers by driving down cycle times, reducing weight reducing cost improving quality so a lot of great things to come out of these technologies that we’re absorbing within to oil and gas.
And with that I’d like to go ahead and turn over to Brian Palmer, who will talk further about the measurement control business but also about the industrial internet.
Brian Palmer
Great. Thanks, Eric. Okay, good morning. I am Brian Palmer. I lead GE’s measurement and control business which is a roughly $4 billion business unit within oil and gas portfolio. When I think about -- oh I'm sorry -- when I think about the opportunities that we have in this business measurement and control serves a number of different industries. We serve oil and gas which is by far our largest industry. We also serve the power generation industry. We serve aerospace, metals and mining and other light industrial. When I think about oil and gas I think about it not only is our largest space but the biggest opportunity for growth. When you think about the customers challenges in their operation today you think about more remote and more complex operations, tighter regulations, tighter reporting requirements and what we see as a skills gap in the industry and frankly in aging technical work force, you couple that with the capability of the equipment that you’ve have all heard about here in the last hour that built and wired to both receive and transmit data and the evolution of that data ready equipment we think the opportunity is taking that data from the machine in process and using it to drive reliability, using it to drive efficiency, using it to drive production optimization. What was really the goal, measurement and control goal of eliminating downtime, eliminating unplanned or forced downtime in the industry.
A little bit about measurement and control in addition to being of an operating business unit within oil and gas, I see and you heard the speakers here this morning talk about measurement control really as a technology enabler for all aspects of the oil and gas cycle and you can see from this page, we’ve got technology and solutions that span all phases of oil and gas from initial production capability of monitoring and controlling and providing diagnostics right through to Hasan’s business of downstream, refining and petrochemical.
This is done with advanced sensor technology, it’s done with advanced and harsh measurement, harsh environment electronics technology, it’s done with data industrial data acquisition, storage and analysis, all technologies we either acquired, developed ourselves organically and probably most importantly are able to reach across the span of GE to get both elemental technology into our sensing, software and data analytics or be able to share technology developed by other divisions of the company.
And I want to use a couple of examples. One example of that is our production optimization solution. This is a solution we brought to the land based oil production industry that combines our GE Predix software platform with the Safire multi phase flow meter solution that is a fast collaboration effort between us, Chevron and Los Alamos Lab. And the example of reaching across GE is the Safire meter is a combination of conventional ultrasonic flow measurement which we've been able to extract from our healthcare business and our ultrasound business, combining that with MRI technology and enhanced imaging technology, what we think provides an industry leading solution to be able to measure multiple phases coming out of a land based production well, being able to measure continuously oil, water, gas, sand mix. And here is it's important do the industry. The old way of measuring production wells and their mix or water cut or gas cut is monthly take a tanker around and do an analysis on a batch basis of how that well is performing. So the tag time or the rhythm of the data to make adjustments in your oilfield is monthly. What this system and the meter and the Predix platform allow our customers to do is have a continuous accurate reliable online measurement so that they can make hourly adjustments versus monthly adjustments.
We're partnering with Chevron and the first pilot is in the Bakersfield, Silicon Valley production operation. 20,000 land based wells, we've already installed 500 meters in their operation, their targeting, we believe it's possible. But their target is 3% production improvement on an annual basis, because of the ability to balance and optimize those wells.
And if you took sort of a midsized 1,000 production operation a 3% improvement is $50 million, $55 million of increased production in a year. So we think this is an industry changing solution that leverages the power across GE.
Another example and this is one we are very excited about, in fact we made an announcement earlier this week and launched our intelligent pipeline management system.
And this is another Predix platform. So, we're leveraging our team in San Ramon that you've heard about and North American pipeline customers, our midstream pipeline customers faced with aging infrastructure, faced with the safety and regulatory concerns, really faced with the challenges that that pipeline industry has around reliability around accidences around events asked us to help them integrate current historical pipeline and pipeline equipment condition data with their active demand forecasting and operating data to allow them to try to predict when they need to take a shutdown to drive normally scheduled maintenance, how they avoid (inaudible) how they avoid an [accidence] and we’re able to do that using the data that we’ve got from our pipeline and inspection services business who does annual inspection on their pipeline anyway and gathers corrosion, erosion defect date on the pipeline and integrate it into their operating system, their ERP, and their standard operating system to allow operators across 15,000 miles of piping with this particular system to look on a consistent basis of condition of the pipeline how they optimize in high load situations and how they eliminate failures.
So we have been able to reach into our software COE that you’ve heard so much about at San Ramon and we’re able to move at the speed of the software company. So leverages the main knowledge we have on the pipeline and the equipment unit, reach into our thousand force software COE develop a solution in a matter of months. We’ve got our first contract to five year agreement with Colombia Pipeline Group that we think will be not only a terrific contracting in and of itself will become an industry standard on how you monitor and optimize, safely optimize pipeline operations.
And I would say the San Ramon software team can’t be understated -- sorry, can’t be overstated because I have seen firsthand the value of bringing our customers out to 1,000 person Silicon Valley software operation and our eyes are open that not only do we have the mechanical, physical and data from our knowledge of the equipment and the operation in the process but we’ve got software development capability that’s world class. And I think that really differentiated us in this space and in this transaction.
So hopefully you have seen a little bit of the technology portfolio that we’ve got that I think operates with sensors, electronic systems, software data and analytics as a business unit within Lorenzo’s portfolio. But I think the real value, and this is importantly is that it’s an enabler and a differentiator for each one of the business units you’ve heard out here today that truly I think sets them apart from their competition and allows them sort of their own in-house measurement and control capabilities to differentiate their products. And it’s an exciting place to be in the oil and gas space today. And we think we continue to differentiate products with data, with data analytics and with domain knowledge.
So with that, let me turn it back over to Lorenzo to wrap.
Lorenzo Simonelli
Thank you, Brian. So first of all I think a thanks is in order because there seems to be only one setting on this thermostat and that’s very cold. But during the course of the last hour and so you’ve heard a formidable story on the portfolio that we put together. You’ve seen the products that we’ve aggregated; you’ve seen the technologies. And I hope you agree, we have a franchise that is second to none in the industry. We feel good about where the industry is headed in the long term. We feel good about the product portfolio, the technology differentiation. And through the gas infrastructure that you saw with Rafael and Hasan, you saw how that's playing out for the unconventional and the shale that Andrew presented; you saw how we're delivering new solutions and really added value with the technology that we're aggregating. The subsea space that you saw from Rod and then with Brian and Eric as you just saw again, the added value of technology; productivity and solutions to customers, customer outcomes. And when we look at what the customers needed, it was capital efficiency focused on making sure products are delivered on time that we’re delivering them products that are standardized that we're delivering them execution, lifecycle productivity, being able to reduce unplanned events, you seen the solutions there and being able to go after complex resources, projects in harsher more difficult terrains. We’ve got the technologies that matter because we're also part of GE and we're able to harness the value of GE.
So, as you look at the total equation and you look at the summary, we feel good about the long-term aspects of the industry. You’ve seen the projections, you saw our indicators. We feel good about the spaces where we put the investments and we put the focus. We feel good about GE Oil & Gas continuing to grow higher than the industry rate and continuing to focus on the productivity and the margin accretion through standardization, simplification and continuing to have a technology differentiation through the GRC, through the benefit that we have by being part of GE portfolio.
Put it all together and we're able to continue to grow in line with expectations, continue to enhance the margin and continuing to grow this platform at an accelerated rate.
And at GE Oil & Gas we have a purpose statement that you see around you. That purpose statement unites us, all 45,000 employees with a common mission out there for our customers and also for the shareholders. We fuel the future. We push the boundaries of technology to bring energy to the world.
I thank you very much for the opportunity to share with you the story this morning. We feel we’ve got a formidable platform that addresses what the industry needs are and also what the customers need going forward. It's been pull together from the course of a number of years and it’s focused in the right areas.
So, with that I’d like to open up to Q&A. Thank you.
Question-and-Answer Session
Matt Cribbins
Great. So for Q&A given the size of the room that we have here and we’ve got a number of folks on the web west that once you recognize, we'll bring you a microphone, if you could use that for us for asking a question. Thank you.
Lorenzo Simonelli
Okay, Steve.
Steve Winoker - Bornstein Research
Thanks Lorenzo; Steve Winoker from Bornstein Research. First question is just give us perspective. You now I invested I think about $15 billion since ‘02 in building up this portfolio. And there are some questions about where you invested and the return on that investment over time. Maybe give us a little perspective on how are you doing from a return perspective on the amount that GE’s invested over that time period. And then where are you in terms of moving this business from a collection of independent brands and businesses to something that’s more integrated and going to market on an integrated basis and how much is left for you on that front?
Lorenzo Simonelli
Okay. Steve thanks for the question. And hopefully through the presentation you saw some of the way in which we’re really aggregating the acquisitions that we’ve made into a portfolio of solutions, really sense it on what the customer outcomes and customer needs are. With respect to the acquisitions, on aggregate you look at the financial performance and we’re actually exceeding pro forma on those acquisitions. We feel good about the acquisitions we’ve made. And our large focus has been on integrating those acquisitions into the portfolio, benefiting from the capabilities they have but also adding the GE D&A and being able to go out there as what Andrew presented in the unconventional space, a full lineup of solution for our customers. We have the complete portfolio of artificial lift pumping solutions for our customers.
Now through the acquisitions of [DASPs], Lufkin and we’ve been doing that also in the subsea space aggregating the acquisitions as the complete solutions. And I think we’ve got a compelling portfolio. And again the financial returns are there and are actually accretive at the moment. Please.
Jeff Sprague - Vertical Research
Thank you, Lorenzo. Jeff Sprague from Vertical Research. Just wondering if you could maybe touch on the evolving risk profile of the business; and I don’t mean that’s so much from the project volatility that you mentioned a little bit but some commentary about project management. And we think about what’s happened in power right going from selling a product to going to balance a plant which has got engineering and alike and it seems like you are probably going the same way and that maybe is where the industry would want to take you, I am just wondering if you could give us some idea of how much of your business is tied up in actual product management and E&C type endeavors and to what extent do you see that changing as you integrate these products?
Lorenzo Simonelli
I think first of all we have been doing projects for a lot of time and when you look at the history of Nuovo Pignone and also the Turbomachinery business it’s been part of our DNA from the beginning. So projects is part and parcel of what oil and gas has grown up with, as you say as we continue to involve we continue to go into larger projects and as you saw from Rod’s examples on the subsea space, we’ve got larger projects that we are involved in. And so we have got expertise that we are embedding into the business and we are managing the execution risk by having the expertise in the business. So I don’t know if Rod you want to add anything relative to the subsea space or Rafael on the Turbomachinery.
Rod Christie
I think the slide that Brian has talked about we’ve spent a huge amount of time both on systems and processes potential digital tools that put a huge amount of power into the subsea business about 7,000 people. I can pull up where the projects are I can get off my iPad on a real time basis. So we’ve integrated the ERPs, the project management tools risk tools, risk management tools and pushing on into a supply base. So real time we can actually pace our projects and get a much better handle on something that moves today, it has an impact maybe in two years time. Recognizing it early and addressing it early which allows us to really derisk the operation. Also with the space as customer learns more about their field and the development in their field they have requirements. We can help them understand and how they manage that and how we would pace that both from a technology point of view and from a schedule and risk point of view. So, do they want to change a technology program or do they want to continue in certain time. It's really about how do you take the business from three, four years ago running one or two major projects, today running 10 major projects consecutively and also building a creative path that recognizes tremendous project management capability and gives the project manager a clear project analysts, commercial contracts managers proper clearer path that allow them to really develop the main expertise in that space. So, we feel I think very good about the platform we’ve got there today and the ability to expand that going forward.
Rafael Santana
The only thing I would add is just if you think about the tools that with have delivered and that we have improved overtime, I mean those allow us to share that across the business. And when I look at Pns I mean it actually allows us (inaudible) product within the projects that we have so great opportunity to be shared across the portfolio.
Lorenzo Simonelli
Other questions, please?
Unidentified Analyst
Thanks. Just trying to put the global CapEx budgets in respective as to what every single oil and gas capital Equipment Company is saying about being able to outgrow the budgets and I just want to focus on Australia for a second because it looks like there couple of major projects that are rolling down over the next couple of years, 10 million or so in spending that is going almost away. Can you talk about and you guys are involved in those projects, can you maybe talk about what's the tail after the CapEx rolls down that helpd you guys the one that revenue decline or the maybe the phasing of projects that makes you guys a little more smooth around that, I just used Australia as an example and I have a follow up on that.
Lorenzo Simonelli
Yes, no I think it's a great question and I'll also let some of the team address it. Because it really is an aspect of the way in which we have a business that's both project related on the equipment side, but also service related as well.
And so you look at the big projects relative to Australia for example, we'll go in there and we'll provide the modular approach on the equipment side, we'll also then engage on the service side as well.
And so, you've got an OpEx element related to each of these projects that actually is very fruitful and last a number of years going forward. So, in particular the projects that we're involved in Australia and a number of those we've got ongoing activities that continue after the initiation from a service perspective in an OpEx that continues and Rafael maybe you can talk to that.
Rafael Santana
One thing I would add is keep in mind, I mean LNG is a big chunk of that, if you were to think that the orders we're getting here today. We're really executing the course of next two or three years. And to that point, I would say we've had really North America picking up quite strong from that perspective on the LNG front. And keep also in mind OpEx front as some of those projects come up live running. So, it really builds up nicely.
Unidentified Analyst
So, can you grow Australia as these projects roll off over the next couple of years. And then how big is this business as a percentage of your segment Australia?
Rafael Santana
We'll get to the actual segments, we look at it from a Southeast Asia, Australia in total. The Australian projects as they come off we're moving into the OpEx side of service. And also we do see a continuation opportunity with further LNG trends going forward with respect to the Australia projects as well.
Unidentified Analyst
And then just a question on the margin you guys put out a slide that shows SG&A down 250 basis points over the last couple of years. Your margins were up I think 20 to 30 last year, there was an acquisition in there obviously and are going to be up solidly 70 whatever 80 basis points this year. So what’s the difference between the SG&A decline and the margin improvement, why does it more of that drop to the bottom-line?
Lorenzo Simonelli
I’ll also pass it over to Brian but you’ve got other things obviously that are being invested into the business. You saw the capacity increases you saw the investments that we’re making from a technology perspective. So Brian, you want to…
Brian Worrell
Brian Worrell CFO for Oil & Gas. One other thing Steve you have is mix of business inside of oil and gas that you keep heard us talk before about Brian’s business if you think about that business and what it offers, the relative margins are higher there versus some of the other project business with what’s been going on and cycle for pieces of this business that are outside of oil and gas that’s not been growing as fast some other places in the business. So there is a mix element that’s impacted some of the margin that you talked about there.
Andrew Obin - Bank of America
Andrew Obin, BofA Merrill Lynch. Just a question on deep offshore I think there was a lot of controversy about where the end market is going and I understand the nature of your backlog in this segment but I was surprised to see that you guys have actually pretty optimistic forecast for offshore. So first if you could just talk about that and second vis-à-vis GE it seems that Petrobras is a big swing factor, and my understanding is that’s not historically been a customer of yours on subsea stuff?
Lorenzo Simonelli
Okay. I’ll let Rod speak to that concerning it’s his segment.
Rod Christie
Okay. I think when I look at offshore right now we see a number of projects that are really pushing to the right were at point of view closing, commercially closing. If I talk about commercial team the proposal team and I look at what we actually got active, the volume that’s going out today exceeds the last two years. So the tremendous amount of activity. I think the whole variety of reasons some very complex projects, geopolitical issues and then obviously just getting the right mix say on capital efficiency. Much more interaction with customers front end, earlier engagement looking at how do they take cost out. So how do we work around spec revision, technology revision. So I really do feels if you think at the macro level declining production rates need to recover that to put new reserves into production drilling activity, offshore drilling activity for development point of view still forecasted fairly well. So we still feel good about that space, meet the long-term cycle it’s going work its way through the cycle.
Petrobras I think the other area we have been under penetrated in Petrobras I talked about it before we step back a little bit when we felt we couldn’t quite get the right balance from a profitability and mix point of view inside the business. We’ve just actually reentered there, we earlier this quarter secured our first order in 17 years to actually supply manifold to Petrobras.
We have continue to invest in the technology programs for these all trees and actually it’s pretty well placed if you wanted to step back into that if we feel we can make the right requirements from point of view investing both in the technology and the footprint to do that. So I think we feel there is an opportunity there with Petrobras and there is still tremendous amount of activity globally which we are very placed for.
Andrew Obin - Bank of America
And is the idea that there is enough backlog there just to sort of provide stability over the next year or two as you get over that is that basically the forecast implies?
Unidentified Company Representative
I mean we are at record backlog basically for our business since we actually can see. So, we're still in good situation right now and tremendous amount of bidding activity in the market right now.
Andrew Obin - Bank of America
Okay. Thank you.
Matt Cribbins
Okay.
Unidentified Analyst
Thanks. Just a question around organic sales growth. You talked about 6% industry spend CAGR at the beginning. Your orders have obviously been mixed in the past 12 months so kind of 6% plus what do you think GE's business in aggregate to grow out and how does that place between equipment and service?
Unidentified Company Representative
So, again as I mentioned, we think we can outpace the industry and as you look at the collection of the portfolio that we have from the equipment and service side that enables us to do that. And on the equipment service mix we think again on the equipment side maintaining at the high single to double-digit and also on the service side maintaining at the high single-digit.
Unidentified Analyst
And then just a follow up measurement and control maybe for Brian. I think that business has been a bit underwhelming versus GE's expectations of a year or two ago, your peers like Emerson (inaudible) have got very good orders this year so maybe what happen in GE specifically and is that kind of turning around?
Unidentified Company Representative
Yes. I would say first, measurement and control as I said up there, we serve a number of different industries. Power generation is probably the next largest industry that's in our portfolio, about roughly 30% of our revenue comes from power generation. And those businesses as well as other industrials have been flatter in the past say 12 months, but our orders book and orders rate increased in the second quarter of this year and I think we were in line with or probably stronger than peers. Emerson is on a direct comparison, just because of the portfolio, but I'd say Emerson, Honeywell and others’ mix we are stronger year-to-date on orders growth than those peers.
So, I'd say the market both in oil and gas and power generation rebounding, but not roaring back, but gradually getting better.
Matt Cribbins
We'll take a question from the back to prefer. Over there.
Unidentified Analyst
Thanks. How do you define your cycle or the cycles that make your portfolio positioning? Because obviously spending in these industries has been pretty healthy for a long time and I think most of us would presume that we're not early in this cycle. And what are the things that could -- obviously it's a great story, but what are the things that could be disruptive to the trajectories that you've articulated, because clearly every industry is cyclical and these growth rates still go on forever is it priced of oil, have you talked to these energy companies, they all seem to sort of say the same thing, well if well goes below whatever arbitrary number, investment spending tapers off.
But it's not really great answer. How do you guys see this in terms of the context of supply demand?
Lorenzo Simonelli
Wait, [Faisal] we say very much in touch with our customers and we talk to them on a regular basis and we look at the fundamental macro indicators of what's happening from a consumption perspective and what's happening to the global demand for energy. And the global demand for energy continues to increase.
And there is a number of indicators that we look at that would say the forecast between now and 2035 energy demands are going to increase by another 40%.
So, that has to be fueled. And it's fueled by the ability of the resources of oil and gas and others. And then we go and look at those indicators. And that’s why we feel good about the robustness as we look at the long-term nature of this industry.
Unidentified Analyst
But there is presumably between now and whatever timeframe you said, [2013], there is downturn in the industry. So what are the factors that precipitate that and how does GE -- like how do you plan and prepare for the share gain opportunity, I am curious? And then just secondarily M&A, given the breadth of your portfolio; is it fair to say that deals of size of Lufkin or larger are now off the table as you look to harvest, consolidate and integrate?
Lorenzo Simonelli
So especially on your first point, we’ve got an opportunity again to grow ahead of industry if we look at the composition of the portfolio that we pull together. We’ve got an opportunity to continue the integration of the products and also the solutions which is why we feel comfortable saying we’re going to actually grow faster than industry. Relative to new acquisitions, we continue to look at the opportunities. And it’s not precluded and it’s going to unfold as we see opportunities come about.
Unidentified Analyst
Thanks Lorenzo. If your competitors were here, I think some of them would stand up and say, you’ve won contracts more on price than capability. How do you respond to that comment? I mean clearly they’re going to have a bias on their side, but we’ve heard it from a number of different players. And I guess part of the follow-up because I think I know what your answer is going to be, but I think part of the follow-up to that question is since you worked hard to gather these acquisitions and going to market in a different way, did you have to get more aggressive in your bidding to really prove out, get that installed base and then prove out some capabilities and now going forward have -- don’t have to be quite as aggressive on the business.
Lorenzo Simonelli
Well, first of all, I am not going to comment with respect to where we are on our competition and what they say about us. What I will say is look at our price index and what we report externally and you will see that we’ve got positive price. Secondly, relative to the aspect of our presence in the market, GE has a great brand and a great recognition in the industry. And we’ve been in the industry for a number of years. And we’ve got a customer base that is supportive of GE being in the oil and gas industry. So we’ve worked to continue the integration of the products and adding on and providing solutions to these customers. So we feel good about the trajectory and we feel good about the competitive positioning that we have in the industry.
Unidentified Analyst
Okay. Throughout the presentation, I don’t think you mentioned GE Capital and you had a fairly large infrastructure oil and gas, financing arm. Are we to assume since you didn’t mention it that it’s not important or not part of the mix or is there some clear examples you can give to where that has been a competitive advantage for you?
Lorenzo Simonelli
Actually it was on the presentation and I am glad that you brought that up in the question. We benefit tremendously by having also GE Capital as part of the GE franchise and also as part of what we can offer to our customer base. And when you look at one of the announcements that is being made today around Freeport LNG that actually involves GE Capital as well. So you look at what we can do from a GE perspective for our customers, again it’s a unique proposition because we’ve also got the balance sheet and the financing that provides that capability, not only the products and the services but we do also work with GE Capital where it makes sense.
Unidentified Analyst
Okay. And then just last question is you mentioned that your deals that you’ve done have come in ahead of model. But since we don't what model means, can you give us a sense of what the return on capital is on your aggregate M&A activity?
Lorenzo Simonelli
So, if you look at it, that you’ve got different years and different aspects of when the deals were made. So Brian, do you want to speak to that? Okay.
Over there, please.
Joe Ritchie - Goldman Sachs
Hi. Joe Ritchie, Goldman. So, first question is on R&D spend and can you maybe talk a little bit about the step up in R&D to sustain the order pricing that you had? I think you guys have had positive order pricing in 8 of the last 10 quarters? And so, how you're stepping up your R&D spend and maybe potentially quantify that number?
Lorenzo Simonelli
Yes. If you look, again, we’ve actually steadily increased our R&D spend internally within GE Oil & Gas. And if we look at it from a GE Oil & Gas perspective, I think Eric, we spend about 2% of our percent of sales on R&D. And then we also benefit from the GE total research spend that Jeff has mentioned at the time, so about 5% of revenue.
Joe Ritchie - Goldman Sachs
And then maybe just following on the pricing are there -- we talked a little bit about the subsea sector being a little bit more of a nascent industry. Talk a little bit about the rational behavior or potentially irrational behavior of some of your competitors in the space? And how do you go about pricing the risk for first time project? So you mentioned the Australian FLNG project to be curious to hear how you think about pricing risk for a project of that size and new type project like that?
Lorenzo Simonelli
Okay. So, I am going to let Rod jump in here as well. One of the things that’s critical in this industry is the expertise and the domain knowledge. And that's what we are benefiting from is having domain knowledge in the space through the experience that we have in the Turbomachinery; we're able to capture the experience of the prior projects and we're able to bring those on to the offshore floating LNG and also for the experience level projects taking those into consideration as we look at taking on new projects.
And specifically, do you want to talk about what we're doing with projects here?
Rod Christie
Yes. Just to give you a quick idea, we've over the last three, four years invested in the risk management toward stock inception. So, when we look out the customers, we look at technology risk, schedule risk, the terms and conditions obviously that we're actually signing up to and whether that actually has an impact from an execution point of view; are we bringing through new technology, is it entire well, is it existing technology. And really we can put a modeling from the customer today that actually allows us to have a discussion around, if we change from this technology path to this technology path, it derisks for you on schedule, it allows us to derisk and take price out.
So, today we're actually having some pretty good discussions. And over the last couple of years, I'd say we've had some very good discussions which have actually changed the path the customers been planning to take. And I think I'd like to say that what we've done that with customers, the customers seeing that performance also translate straight into the project execution.
So, we’ve got projects where customers looking at maybe changing the technology program from or having a very customized solution, move them towards a much more structured product that allows us to really expedite it and derisk it through the business and bring that back to them. And they've seen that in project performance, both from point of view of ongoing change management and from schedule adherence.
So I think today we’ve got quite a good model for really understanding and pricing risk into a deal and articulating that with a customer.
Joe Ritchie - Goldman Sachs
2% R&D of sales it seems like quite a low number given the complexity of some of these products and given that you’re talking about you’re moving process and down it to the deep sea. Do you see that number going higher to go more R&D intensive business overtime, or it’s fairly low because you are leveraging technology from power energy management et cetera?
Lorenzo Simonelli
I’ll let also Eric jump in here. But I think if you look at our peer group you’ll actually see that we spend inline or above actually our peer group and we’ve been steadily increasing our spend at the oil and gas level. We definitely benefit from the overall GE spend on the engineering aspect and as Eric mentioned the global research centers. the overall spend and the leverage that we actually by leaning into what aviation has, what also the power and water team has, but Eric please.
Eric Gebhardt
Yes. The 2% number is a purest view if you just look at how much we put into that. But if you look at how much we’ve stepped it up. So, first of all, last year we added 1,600 engineers to the 7,000 from 5,400 engineers up to 7,000 engineers continue to increase the amount of engineering. Our R&D spend for 2013 was 30% up from the year before and again that’s from a pure view of what we spend internally. We also have customer co-funded projects where we are part of joint investment programs where significant dollars coming in there. And then as Lorenzo mentioned if you look at our aviation team as they enhanced the jet engines that technology has naturally close down for free to the oil and gas team and the aero derivatives as power generation advance is their technology that flows right down to Rafael’s business also. So it’s a bigger number than that it appears GE would be at 2%.
Joe Ritchie - Goldman Sachs
The follow on question your entire preface was almost entire around product classification, efficiency, productivity and given that oil and gas’s margins are lot lower than power and aviation I am just wondering where you see oil and gas margins go longer terms?
Lorenzo Simonelli
So as w