General Electric Company (NYSE:GE)
Stifel Industrials Conference
June 16, 2015 03:00 PM ET
Executives
Mark Little - SVP, Chief Technology Officer
Unidentified Company Representative
…Mark Litle, VP of Technology in the Global Research Center at GE, thanks for coming.
Mark Little
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen, it's nice to be with you. So I have a few slides to show you talk about what we do and then I'd be happy to take any questions you have about anything going on in the company so I am the CTO of GE and run GE Global Research; there are about 50,000 technologist across the company that we support and we support every single GE business that I think you know very well, they range from healthcare to aviation, energy management, we support every one of them and our only measure of success is the success of those businesses.
GE Global Research is the first industrial research laboratory formed inside the United States, back in the early days of the company there were two sites one in Lynn, Massachusetts, one in Schenectady, New York and out of the first center they pulled a young professor out of MIT to do the first industrial research lab in the country. He wasn't sure it was a great idea but he came anyway, tried it on part time, he fell in love with it, he came fulltime he ran the place for 32 years. We have been at it since 1900, I'm the 9th guy running the place, we're very proud of our heritage in building the future that we are.
We've been expanding from those early days to go around the globe. We started off at the turn of the century moving to Bangalore, India, Shanghai, China, Munich, Germany, we came back to the United States in the Detroit area for advanced manufacturing, we're in Brazil now, we started in 2011 a software center in Silicon Valley, we've got a place in Israel and we've now started oil and gas center in Oklahoma to be in the heart of the oil and gas country. The idea here is that we want to be near our customers to pull their best ideas and hire the best people we can wherever they may be in the world.
It's all about winning with technology, we do innovate on big things that scale, we use our technology to drive lower product cost, we have a tremendous installed base of everything from aircraft engines to wind turbines to MRI machines and locomotives across the board, there's tremendous value in that installed base that we want to help our customers get advantage from and analytics are a new tool that enable us to win. And winning we are, we're gaining share in aviation I think you know that story very well, the LEAP engine is the new narrow body engine, we have almost 80% share in that segment we're very proud of that and as you probably know most of the airplanes flown in the world are narrow body aircraft engines powered by GE CFM engines.
The Ace Turbo which I'll show it to you later is the biggest and best gas turbine in the world and the Tier 4 locomotives for an example are the only locomotives that can satisfy U.S. EPA emissions regulations. That gives us the position of being the only game in town to supply our customers need in near-term. Our technology is all about gaining margins, about manufacturing processes, about driving the right design and testing for efficiency and quality of products. We're doing vertical integration for the first time in my career and in a very serious way using technology to give ourselves an advantage and I'll show you our ideas around Brilliant Factory. And as I mentioned we have an installed base of every kind of equipment. We're all about driving value for our customers and yes getting margins and servicing that installed base in a way that nobody else can.
We talk about the GE Store GE Global Research is in the center of the GE Store. Every business comes to work with us, all the CEOs come regularly with their marketing, product management and technical teams to deliver the presence and build the future. We share across our businesses, the business people know each other and they work with us and through us so if you're John Flannery running Healthcare you develop a new CT scanner, Lorenzo Simonelli takes that CT scanner to the oil and gas field for pipeline inspection.
If you are David Joyce developing ceramic matrix composites for aircraft engines and then you are Steve Bolze, you can take it into his power generation business and on and on and on. Back and forth across the GE Store we learn from each other, we share from each other and we actually quite like each other.
GRC as GE Global Research we have a lot to do with the GE Store, we invest in foundational things like basic materials technology, high performance computing enablers to help our businesses win. We spread ideas as I just mentioned to you, we work with our BD teams to find acquisitions that are synergistic that we can add value to in the GE Store or they can add to the GE Store and help us get value across our enterprise.
We nurture new innovations I will show you some of these things along the way here today, things like silicon carbide is a fundamental power electronics technology that drives efficiency and product cost down. We have without a doubt world leading capability in it and we'll serve our businesses from healthcare to aviation to energy management. I mentioned our ability to do things at scale; we're going digital at high speed and big scale, the software center in San Ramon, California is part of our enterprise and it's going at the speed of light to give us the capability that we weren’t even dreaming about it few years ago and I'll show you how that plays out.
And I have a role as the CTO to unify the engineering community, to share with one another, to drive best practices and make sure our company moves forward aggressively and with speed. We continue to change our model for innovation. We do many things ourselves but we work very naturally with big companies like the ones you see listed here. They co-fund projects with us. You may be interested to know that we actually won a Supplier of the Year Award from Boeing, not as aircraft engine but as GE Global Research because of the foundational stuff we did for them. We have connections with universities all over the world, there are hundreds of these. There are over 300 specific connections and they're typically not things where we give a pile of money to the university and say do something interesting, they are very focused research and researcher connected things.
We do get funding, external funding from governments certainly principally the U.S. but not only the U.S. government. We do what we call in-country for country innovation, so in places like India and China where the needs for example in rural healthcare are quite different from the needs in the U.S. We have local teams who do the marketing, the engineering and the execution in those products in what we call super value and value products and then share them around the world. We do open collaboration things as simple as a bracket that we put out a challenge for 3D printed bracket for aircraft engine application, a young man from Indonesia won that, so it happens he didn't have a whole lot of technical training but he had good capability and won that collaboration.
And then there are other end of the spectrum and collaborations and things like breast cancer cures where you need very sophisticated deeply skilled people like universities and academics to help us do that. And then we have a venture capital activity as a way to get insight to emerging technologies. We have practices in energy, healthcare, software and advanced manufacturing and as the Chief Technology Officer I really like these things because we get to see what's going on in the competitive world of emerging technologies that as a big company we would otherwise have a difficult time seeing, and yes, we do intend to make money out of these investments along the way.
We have a framework we call FastWorks. This is a framework to enable us to go faster with our thinking about getting products to market quickly. The young fellow, new young fellow named Eric Ries out of Silicon Valley who wrote a book called The Lean Startup that you may have heard helped us formulate some of our thinking around this. The idea is to be clear about your leap of faith assumptions to get a minimum buyable product in your customers hands as quickly as possible, learn from that and then pivot to new things as you learn. This kind of thinking has infiltrated every GE business from aviation to healthcare and everywhere I go and I talk about new product introduction this is part of the way people think and act. It's a new day, a new way of thinking about keeping the old rigor and discipline but driving speed into our innovation thinking.
I want to give you a quick flyby and believe me I can talk to you all day about this, about products and services and ideas we have to build the future. And we have characterized in these simple ways to think about extreme machines, super materials to support those extreme machines, healthcare thinking around mapped minds, energy everywhere which is a core theme for GE, Brilliant Factories and the Intelligent Internet. So I am just going to give you some quick examples of each of these things.
The LEAP engine that I mentioned to you before is the narrow bodied aircraft engine, it is a technologist’s dream, it has every kind of thing you can think about, very sophisticated materials to advanced control systems to aerodynamics buildup, high performance computing to very much connected to the industrial that you know I speak to you before. It is loaded with technology, it has to be to win in this competitive space and as I mentioned before we have almost 80% share in the segment and we are very-very proud of that.
Super Materials is core to what GE Global Research and GE are all about. We build material systems where we need them. Ceramic matrix composites are one good example of that. This is a composite material so it has got fibers and it's got a surrounding matrix. The fibers are made out of silicon carbide basically a ceramic material that coat in a special way to give them flexibility and they're surrounded in a matrix that gives you a lightweight durable structure you can see the temperature capability in the graph there is far above the metals that we're replacing. These systems are one-third of the weight, so those two benefits together give you a capability to go at 1.5 fuel efficiency advantage over to that.
That may not sound like a lot but that is lead difference between winning and losing in a very competitive space and winning we are. We are the only competitor to have this capability in the marketplace today. We've been at it for about for about 25 years, we've been doing the fundamental research, and we are now building out the capability these are in engines today and you'll see many more ceramic matrix composites in engines of the future.
Oil and gas is an obvious place for what we call extreme machines here is an example of the GE Store playing out subsea where you have very high pressure environments as you go down the hole very high temperature environments and very corrosive environment. So you need everything we can get for our aviation business with advance materials and coatings our industrial Internet applications for thinking about analytics and diagnostics, software and imaging from healthcare and on and on and on. A great example of the GE Store is why I like the oil and gas space so much. There are lots of resources for oil and gas they are increasingly from difficult places that will mean they have to have advance technology to get it and we can bring that to this field.
Shifting over to healthcare here is an example of one thing there are many modalities in healthcare this is a very exciting space we can innovate like mad in. Here is the idea of mapping minds, and we bring several different capabilities to this one is being able to look at tissue specimens to see what the effects of diseases are. We have a very creative way to do that it allows researchers to see what's going on genetically in the expression of proteins in a way that nobody else can do today. We have neurological imaging through our advance MR systems that are allowing researchers to see the neuro pathways in brains that they simply couldn’t see before because Amersam wasn’t that good. And because we understand in material and electrical systems we can make implants of growing brains that can number one help map the brain and see what the signals are telling us and number two help make adjustments to the brain signals for things epileptic kinds of diseases. So a tremendous span of very interesting capabilities we bring in healthcare.
Life science is a wonderful high profitable nice growth business part of our healthcare business. And what we do in life science is we basically build the factories that enable our customers to produce biopharmaceuticals, it is the idea of taking small groups of cells putting them in the right environments to grow naturally, segmenting them purifying them and then making sure they are ready for applications and therapeutics. It's a wonderful business, it requires great understanding of biology which we got through the Amersam acquisition and the engineering skills that we have in the core part of the GE Store are wonderful compliments to move with healthcare brought to Amersam and that has enabled us to innovate in a spectacular way.
Here is another different modality in healthcare this is a revolution CT or CAD scanning technology. This is the idea of using high speed imaging with some very clever technologies that allow you to capture an image of a beating heart which is the most demanding application because your heart obviously doesn’t sit still. We're able to see not only what's going on inside the heart we can discern as you can see in the right hand in that image there whether there is tissue damage or not and we are close to the hope that we'll be able to forego and nascent procedures for looking inside the heart which can be risky we'll be able to see whether you have track built up and to direct therapies without these kind of invasive procedures. It is a whole new day and they are very, very interesting technologies that enable that.
Energy everywhere is a core theme for many of our businesses, you know everybody in every part of the world wants energy there are lots of issues around environmental concerns there to oil and gas space while suffering a down cycle now still needs lots of investment overtime. And natural gas being available principally in the U.S. creates a lot of opportunities for us. One of those is an advance gas turbine technology our HA gas turbine is new to the marketplace. It is the largest most efficient best position for cross advantage for our customer's machines in the industry our customers will tell you that. We are in the market we're winning market share it provides real life cycle benefits to our customers. The flip side of that is distributed power it's not big central station power but this is the locally generated power. We have a lot of ideas here one of which is the idea of using fuel cells these are high temperature fuel cells in which we can put a fuel like natural gas or it could be a broken down liquid fuel. We put it in the fuel cell extract electricity from that take the residual unburned fuel and put it in a reciprocating engine or a natural gas turbine and then you have a system that can be 65% efficient maybe even 70% efficient some day.
That HA gas turbine I just showed you is about 62% efficient that’s the best-in-class for central station power. Here we are talking about 65% to 70% efficient power generated locally a complete inversion of the 100 year old paradigm for power generation. This is a start up you can see me and some of my friends at the ribbon cutting ceremony for our little startup we started out GE energy research center we're building a capability and capacity to serve in a market. If we could produce cells today we could sell large quantities of it we are very much in the scale of pace here so stay tuned this is going to be an exciting business.
And renewables are going mainstream I was in the power business for many years in GE before I was in the research center and I was there when we bought the business from Enron out of bankruptcy, it was a 10 billion excuse me $200 million business at the time losing money, our wind business is now $6.5 billion business, it's best in the world by any profitability measure and is very nicely profitable. It got that way, because we've invested a lot of capability in salesforce and global manufacturing presence and yes, in fundamental technologies. You can see the cost of electricity for wind turbines coming down from a very high number, where it need a lot of subsidies to survive to a point where it is very close to being competitive, even against advanced natural gas turbines in today's world and we have a lot more technology to come to advanced materials, advanced control systems and alike.
I want to shift over to some of fundamental platform kind of ideas we have around, our internal factory capabilities and our industrial Internet. The first one, and this is something we call the digital thread and the brilliant factory is part of that. And the idea here is that we use digital information to do our design work, instead of the traditional paper drawings that pass the manufacturing, and we build 3D images that can go into our factories that enable speed and efficiency and productivity and quality that couldn't have been dreamed of before. It enables us to do thing like virtual manufacturing, where we can actually model the processes, do manufacturing producibility in way we couldn't do before, do should cost models to enable us the buy things at the best cost and we can model the manufacturing in our machine tools and directly feed the machine tools with a 3D image as oppose to going through a grinding process today of making numerical control programs by hand.
We can put sensors on everything inside our factories and spec things as we go along, so we'll know, everything about, every single part and piece we make, we can use that to guide our manufacturing to do a real-time adaptive controls and use that system to develop feedback loops that will be virtuous for a long, long time to come. And then they're analytics that will go on top of all this, data gathering that can help us optimize not only our factories but our entire supply chain inside and outside of GE.
And just to shift gears to the basic material side, you hear us talk about 3D printing, we talk about complexity being free and that means, I can design parts that are complex, just as easily as I can design parts that are simple. The simple parts have to be that way to accommodate old manufacturing processes, this liberates the designers to do things, they couldn't do before and without going through a detailed explanation either drive efficiencies in our product that we just couldn't get before. This is not a futuristic thing, this is a today thing. There are parts in that LEAP engine that I showed you, that are 3D printed and we do that because it's the most cost effective way to make those parts, you're going to see more and more parts and pieces across GE that are 3D printed and even today, we're using in our factories to get tooling and to get prototype products faster that we could ever do before.
I want to close out on the industrial Internet, big theme for us. You well know, what happened, as we connect with all of us up with cellphones and smart devices and enable communication, the speed of innovation that that liberated that thing is going to happen time span when we get to the industrial Internet, when we connect all of our machines and then we are able to communicate with each other and learn from each other, this is happening. We bring to the party, the ability to do the digital side and the physical side, which is a traditional core of GE. We're building a software analytics muscle, we're arming up our machines to have sensors that can make them intelligent, we're building the processes to deal with the big data that comes off these machines and we're liberating our people to work in entirely different ways.
This means we can deliver across the industrial Internet, real benefits to our customers in healthcare, aviation, power and water and every business we think of. You will see us out commercial, as we talk about the power of 1% and the businesses that we're in, in the industries are so vast that 1% represents huge savings for our customers and huge values to the GE shareholders. At the core, of what we're doing is building a platform we call Predix. Predix is a platform that all the GE businesses can use to build applications for their industries, it has the ability to handle, what we call big data, to put applications in the cloud and this is transformative for GE. If you went back, just a few years ago, you would see each GE business building its own capability for itself. Now we have a platform that all the businesses can use, is being built out in San Ramon California, our businesses are putting people there to take advantage of it and we're very rapidly building what we call productivity solutions inside our businesses to take advantage of this.
We talk about APM that is Asset Performance Management, and the simple idea here, is that we gear up every machine we have with a set of sensors that can get the data that we want off that machine and this platform will enable us to gather up that data for everything we make and handle it in a way that couldn't be done before and give us insight to service and new business model capabilities across the company. Think about what this does for GE, we have long had the ability to do what we call real time controls and that is for say, a land based gas turbine, having a control system that will read the sensors and in real time, millisecond kind of time, make adaptations to the system to deal with whatever circumstances might come up. Temperatures change, pressures change and machine will respond to that and react in real time. Now we're building a companion capability that takes all the operating data off that machine and puts it up in the cloud for storage and processing.
So we can do offline analytics that can help us understand the behavior of our machine. So imagine a future that is not far from coming, where every single GE machine will be loaded with sensors, we will know everything about it from the day it is bought in our factory for every second of its lifecycle in the field, we're going to create what we call digital twin, just as Google has a digital twin of each one of us in the cloud somewhere. We'll have a Digital Twin of each and every machine that GE makes. We'll know exactly how it was -- we have the physical models to go with that which will tell us how that machine are to be serviced. This is going to open up incredible value for our customers and deliver real productivity to us.
An example of this is in aviation. All of us travel, we know the pain of airport delays, we know where that creates for a decrease in productivity for the work forces these are big numbers for airlines around the world. Because we're going to have each and every one of our aircraft engines loaded with sensors, we'll see problems emerging before they impact our customers, we'll know how each machine was operated individually. We'll know the material properties inside each machine in a very special way. We'll know things about that machine that no other competitor could possibly know. And we're going to use that to deliver value for our customers and to help us execute our contractual service agreements more productively than anybody else. This is an incredibly powerful tool that we're giving to our businesses and to our customers.
So there is a quick buzz to GE technology leadership, we've upped our spending on Research and Development from about 2% to 3% of industrial revenues to 5% or 6%. We're kind of leveling off at about $16 billion over the next three years period. That level of spending puts us in a world-class position versus our competitors in the industries which we compete. I started off by saying the measure of our success achieved in global research is the success of our businesses. And I'd ask people to look at the LEAP engine where we have almost 80% market share, the H gas turbine which is clearly the leader in its field, the Tier 4 Locomotive which is the only locomotive that can meet customer requirements in the U.S. today, the PET/MR machine which is the most sophisticated imaging device in this industry leading market share. And the Predix platform that we're building that is going to give us a capability, internal to the company and external. I should tell you that we are very actively pursuing external applications for Predix with non-GE customers to give them the capability to do with their industrial machines what we will do with ours. So there's the story on GE Technology I’d be happy to answer in the remaining time any questions you might have with anything going on in technology and in the company at large.
Question-and-Answer Session
Q - Unidentified Analyst
So I have one question, you mentioned again I think 300 plus 3D printers in use. So obviously you spend a lot time looking [indiscernible]. Could you talk a little bit about where they make sense and where they don’t make sense versus traditional manufacturing?
Mark Little
Yes, so just to qualify this so everybody understands. A lot of people who work with plastic systems in 3D printing, that's a very good thing, but that's not what GE is about. GE is about trying to do metals manufacturing for the kind of components that are important in the rugged environments in which we serve. So we're trying to move the capability of industry very much the leading edge, we're buying machines from global manufacturers and then we adapt them with the control systems and material systems, we need to do what GE needs. So these things make sense today in places where you have very complex shapes to make that otherwise would require very complicated welding or brazing of multiple compounds together. The fuel nozzle that is in the LEAP engine is a very good example of that. If we made it by traditional processes, we would have to machine maybe 100 different parts and do 23 different brazing operations to get that part made, controlling those brazing operations is a horrendously difficult thing. We can make that part very straight forwardly with 3D printing it is a very complicated shape ideal for that. So those are the kind of applications that you'll see, sir.
Unidentified Analyst
What percentage of the LEAP engine right now is made up of [indiscernible] as you look out like 5, 10 years [indiscernible]?
Mark Little
Yes so, there's a part in the engine called a shroud, it's a stationary component in the early part of the hot gas path of the turbine product, so at a percentage basis it's a small percentage, but it's an important component in terms of driving the efficiency. So you'll see that in the LEAP engine today, but overtime you're going to see a steady progress from that stationary component to what are called the nozzles in the turbo machinery product that are stationary components also to the rotating components that are coming online. So there'd be a progression across LEAP today, the 9X tomorrow and the engines after that will have a full complement of these kinds of parts. And then you look at, there are other stationary components that we'll see in these things as well, but in the end the LEAP we have what is the shroud.
Unidentified Analyst
When you [Indiscernible]?
Mark Little
Yes, so interestingly enough the earliest applications for this were in the 7F gas turbine and heavy duty gas turbine world. We have units out getting thousands of hours of experience as we complete that experience space then we'll start pushing out into heavy duty gas turbine space. So I think it's may be two or three years, not 10 for that kind of thing.
Unidentified Analyst
You talked a bit about Predix and then using it not only for GE machines, but then also for other machines, [higher] [ph] machines; is this meant to be things within GE's existing domain expertise or do you think it is outside of that?
Mark Little
Even outside.
Unidentified Analyst
Where is the end game on that as far as creating standards that GE really ends up being the governor of and kind of crowds out [indiscernible]?
Mark Little
Okay, big space, lot of players, we talk about the industrial Internet, people talk about the Internet of Things, we're the industrial segment of that. We're not the consumer oriented segment of that. We think we can help customers who are not traditional GE customers or even customers who are who want to do the same kind of big data and analytics that we want to do in our machines with their machines. So we are very actively pursuing partnerships with other customers to get into those kinds of applications, so sales outside of GE's traditional domain. We believe that we're an industrial company who understands how industrial companies work both with their products and with their factories and we can think we could help customers who are not traditional GE customers do those things as well. And we think we're in a good spot doing it.
Unidentified Analyst
One more and then we're done.
Unidentified Analyst
So just following up on that, in your use case, [Indiscernible] airline was a great use case, but what’s involved in [cooking up lots of] [ph] [indiscernible] what’s their cost and do you always come up with the use case first and then [indiscernible] or, do you say, all right, let’s just put [indiscernible] on everything and figure out as we go?
Mark Little
Yes, so our traditional approach is to have lots of sensors to do the real time controls in these machines, so we have a sensor base to start with that's quite robust. The next act is to extract all the information from those sensors to feed a machine that can do the big data analytics. The ability to handle the kind of data that we're talking about is new. The processing, the parallel computing that you need to do these things is new, the cloud capability is very new, so we start from what we have, we build a sensing capability to feed the big data but what you're going to see is I show you the example of the control system with Predix machine beside it. We're going to get to the point where we are going to have a Predix machine in everything and maybe a lot of other things. We have partnerships with telecommunications companies to build these kind of capabilities for non-GE devices so then we can head just to the very last question we could help them get this capability for other things. So we start from what we have and we're going to build a lot of capability on top of that and beyond it at the same time.
So I think we better stop. Thanks everybody for coming in, I appreciate your time and attention.
Unidentified Analyst
Thanks everybody.
Copyright policy: All transcripts on this site are the copyright of Seeking Alpha. However, we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists, and are excited to contribute to the democratization of financial information on the Internet. (Until now investors have had to pay thousands of dollars in subscription fees for transcripts.) So our reproduction policy is as follows: You may quote up to 400 words of any transcript on the condition that you attribute the transcript to Seeking Alpha and either link to the original transcript or to www.SeekingAlpha.com. All other use is prohibited.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL, CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION, AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS. IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.