Ford Motor Co. (NYSE:F)
2016 Investor Day Conference
September 14, 2016 10:00 AM ET
Executives
Ted Cannis - Executive Director, IR
Mark Fields - President & Chief Executive Officer
Hau Thai-Tang - Group VP, Purchasing
Raj Nair - EVP, Product Development & Chief Technical Officer
Jim Hackett - Chairman, Ford Smart Mobility LLC
Paul Ballew - Global Chief Data & Analytics Officer
Bob Shanks - EVP, Chief Financial Officer
Dave Schoch - Group VP, President Asia Pacific, Chairman & CEO, Ford China
John Casesa - Group Vice President, Global Strategy
Analysts
Rod Lache - Deutsche Bank
Matt Stover - SIG
Emmanuel Rosner - CLSA
Jamie Albertine - Consumer Edge Research
Ryan Brinkman - JPMorgan
Colin Langan - UBS
Joe Spak - RBC Capital Markets
John Murphy - Bank of America
Brian Johnson - Barclays
Itay Michaeli - Citi
Carl Anderson - Social Capital
Philippe Houchois - Jefferies
Jim Irwin - Moon Capital
Ted Cannis
Good morning, everyone, and welcome to our 2016 Investor Day. My name is still Ted Cannis, the Executive Director of Investor Relations. And I would like to welcome everybody in the room and everybody on line to our special event today. The entire management team is absolutely delighted to have you with us. We are really proud of the Company and we have a great message here to tell you. And we are here at the exciting Dearborn Development Center where you can see some of our great products and learn about the business here.
But with that what I would like to do is introduce our CEO, Mark Fields. Mark?
Mark Fields
Good morning everybody and welcome to Dearborn. It’s been about two years since the last time we got together. Our last investor day was back around this time in 2014. And we’re really looking forward to updating you on our business but also just as importantly talk about our new strategy to deliver profitable growth for everyone associated with Ford. And our goal today is pretty simple, is to provide you a comprehensive look at our strategy, focusing on our highest priorities to drive value in the Company and very simply it’s around fortifying our strengths, it’s around transforming the underperforming parts of our business and it’s around growing in the emerging opportunities, so as an overview.
And what we want to accomplish today is to equip you with the evidence that Ford is a solid investment with an attractive upside on emerging opportunities. And in the near-term, what we want to do is to make clear that our core business is robust and also defensible and it’s much more fit to withstand the next industry downturn that I think it ever has been in the past. And with that of course comes a sustainable dividend and stable dividend. Now, longer term what we like to do is make clear what the upside opportunities are. And those are around transforming the underperforming parts of our business but also reallocating capital to some growth businesses like mobility, electrification and autonomy.
And so, our objective today is to give you a perspective on why Ford and why now. And I have to tell you, we take very, very seriously the trust that you and your investors place in us when you take your hard-earned money and then invest it in our Company. And we are acutely aware of the capital that you entrust to us. And our job is to make sure we make strong choices when deploying that capital. And as CEO, I can assure you, we’re going to make those choices and we are making those choices today. And literally, it’s a very different day at Ford today because some of the things that were off the table three or four years ago, are being considered and that’s partly because of all the opportunities that we see in front of us and we have to make choices.
So, let’s take a look at our track record. As you know, over the past six years, we’ve had very strong and consistent performance on our profitability, our pretax profit and our cash flow. And that resulted in an all-time record for 2015 and pretax profits and also the first half of this year. Now, back in 2014 at the investor day, we said that we were going to improve our financial performance in 2015 and we did. We said, we were going to take our all aluminum approach to our next-generation Super Duty and we have. We said, we were going to implement our blueprint for connectivity and improve our in-car communications, technology as well as automatic driver technology and we have. And we said, we were going to reduce our platforms from 15 to 9 by the end of this year and we are bang on track with that, so that 99% of our volumes is going to be coming off of those nine platforms.
So, delivering on our commitment as a team is really, really important to us. And as Bob will walk you through a little bit later, we expect our overall financial performance to remain strong through 2018 and importantly, our core business profitability to improve.
Turning to this year, as you know, we expect our pre-tax profits to come in at approximately $10.2 billion that includes the cost for the recall on the latch that we announced last week. And next year, because of our investments that you’ll hear about today in the emerging opportunities, we do expect our total Company results to decline, but then improve in 2018.
So, let’s step back and let’s look at the performance. Obviously, we do expect our core business to remain strong, as I mentioned, during the next several years. And that includes better balancing our profitability around the world in our various regions. And taking you on a tour of that, in North America, we expect North America to continue to be a strong performer for us, even in market that is plateauing, albeit at a high level.
In Europe, we expect continued momentum and continued good performance from the European transformation plan. And we actually expect this year to be one of our best years ever in Europe. At the same time, there is new risk with Brexit, but the team is taking that on and keeping their eye on the ball on reaching our operating margin long-term target of 6% to 8%. In Asia-Pacific, the China market continues to grow. As you know, we’ve completed our manufacturing rollout, a number of our products have been introduced more to come, but we’ve garnered about 5% market share and our brand is highly regarded in that region or in that country.
In addition, the actions that we’ve taken to improve in Australia and ASEAN are really starting to bear fruit with good performance there. We still have more work to do in India. But overall, as we step back, we expect Asia-Pacific to continue to post better results in the year to come and in the years ahead. In Middle East and Africa, I think we’re well positioned for one when that market turns around, and economically it’s challenged right now, but I think we’re well-positioned with our product lineup.
And in South America, the team is very focused on costs and also on keeping our product lineup fresh. And you know it’s a very difficult environment down there economically, but we do expect recovery to start taking place potentially as early as next year. And we’re starting to see some signs of leveling out or bottoming out. But in that next cycle, we expect South America to contribute possibly to the Company just like the nine years before 2013, which was the past cycle.
As we step back and think about how we’re thinking about the business, our One Ford strategy has really served us well and it is very foundational for the Company. It has become part of who we are in terms of working together and running a global enterprise and operating as a global enterprise. But -- and it’s all about very strong business units and world class skill teams that support them. But at the same time as we look at changing consumer attitudes, we look at technology, we look at lot of the emerging business models, it is really moving us to evolve our strategy and to change our thinking. And the way we think about it, we have the strong core business, designing, developing and manufacturing and marketing great cars, utilities and trucks and financing them and servicing them. And we love that business and we’re going to continue to transform it and improve it. But at the same time, again, based on the changing consumer attitude and technology, it’s given rise to emerging set of opportunities around mobility or the usage of our products.
And so, we view the world is moving from a mindset of owning vehicles to owning them and sharing them. And the way we’re thinking about this is not separate businesses but in interconnected business, because you can’t have mobility services without having core products. So, it’s not about moving from an old business to new business, it’s about moving to a bigger business. And it’s not just about selling vehicles, that is very important and will remain very important to us, but it’s also about providing transportation services as well where they make sense for us.
So, during the past six months, I brought our team together to further clarify our vision, our strategy and importantly, the roadmap that allow us to achieve what we set out to do. And we have been making some important decisions and we’ve agreed on three key principles as to guide us in our future capital allocation, where to play; where not to play; and how to win. And so, as we look at the business, this is our strategic framework on one slide, our strategic frame work for the business. And at the very top, we have really reconnected with the vision of what has differentiated Ford over this century and made us successful.
Because Henry Ford was all about making people’s lives better and helping change the way the world moves. And he wasn’t always first to market but he did create the business model that made personal transportation affordable. And that’s always when we have been our best as a Company, right, whether it’s a moving assemble line or our first affordable V8 engine or even more recently, our SYNC entertainment and communication system, our Eco-boost engines which are now across our lineup, and even more recently our aluminum bodied F-Series.
And our new strategy is simple; it is achieve top quartile returns [ph] by expanding our scope from vehicles to mobility, to business model innovation. And to do this, our choices are really driven by the key drivers, the four key drivers of valuation in any Company, growth; risk; returns; and awards.
On the growth side, we want to grow at least as fast as global GDP. On the risk side, continues to be making sure we have a very strong balance sheet, of which we’ve done a lot of work over the last couple of years on that but also at the same time better balance our profitability around the world and also invest in maybe some what’s volatile services for our business. In the case of returns, in our core business, we’re targeting 8% operating margins for our core products and we’re targeting at least 20% for the emerging opportunities and mobility services. And then finally for returns, our rewards, we want to make sure that we’re in the top quartile of shareholder returns versus our peers.
So today, what we’re going to is we’re going to take it through the strategic priorities that drive value. And we are very excited about the strategic priorities because four of them are focused on the core business and three of them are focused on the emerging opportunities. And again, all of them governed by where to play, where not to play and how to win.
So, it all starts first with fortifying our profit pillars and of course building on our clear leadership in trucks, vans and performance vehicles, but also at the same time growing our global position in utilities. And as you think about it, we are a global leader in the highly profitable truck and van segments; we’re number one with F-Series around the world; we are number one with Transit around the world; and we are number three and growing with Ranger around the world. And the reason is because we deeply understand these customers; we know how they use our products; and we really understand what makes them tick and what is important for them around durability and quality, but always with an eye towards cost of ownership.
And we are expanding what I call our moat and I think we’ve proven in the past that we cannot only defend this but also at the same time grow it as well. And if you think about these segments in the U.S., the full-size pickup segment remains very stable and intensely loyal and continues to be supported by the housing industry and where the housing industry is in its cycle. And if you look at our performance, something like the F-150, our retail share of segment is up 1.7 points this year, our new ‘17 model year which is coming right now, going to have a new 10 speed transmission, which the benefit to customers is more torque which is important to them. We’re also going to be introducing our STX model, which is for the value buyer.
Super Duty, as you know, we’re launching that right now; it’s launched on-time. It’s our first new Super Duty in 18 years. And we are getting very good reviews in terms of our best in class towing and payload, and also our driver assist features, which is really important for our customers to keep them as productive and efficient as possible. And if you look at some of the models, our F-350, 450 and 550 dominate. We get 70% of the Class 5 segment, we get 60% of the Class 4 segment and we get about 50% of the Class 3 segment.
And of course, our redesigned aluminum F-Series platforms also make these pickups CAFE positive into the next decade, strategically ahead of our competitors, but also future requirements. Transits, we’re growing globally; we’re number one in Europe; we’re number one here in the U.S. and we’re in a race right now for number one full-size van in China. And then finally Ranger, we introduced it five years ago globally and we’re number one in Europe, and we’re number one in a variety of different Asia-Pacific markets.
And when you stand back, our leadership in trucks and vans, is based on I think some four very important elements. First, really understanding that customer, really deep customer insights and that leads us to have a very trusted relationship with our customers based on our sales and service capabilities. We have a broad range of configurations, which is important for many of these customers who buy a portfolio of vehicles. And of course, we have advanced manufacturing capabilities which is so important to build that complex range, do it at a scale, affordably and with quality, which what our customers expect. And I think each one of these really further strengthens our leadership position. An example of understanding deep customer insights when we were developing the new F-150, our customers told us, they said you know what, we want even more capability in our vehicle but we want it done even more efficiently. So, of course we introduced the V6 EcoBoost into F-150 and that versus the V8 was a big deal. And when you step back now between our EcoBoost V6 and our naturally aspirated V6, it’s more than 60%, more than 60% of our F-Series sales; that’s really about having those deep customer insights.
Super Duty, we own literally more than 50% of some very important sectors, whether it is oil and gas, forestry, metal mining, highway maintenance, we essentially own work with Super Duty. And one of the reasons for that is because our customers really benefit from some of the best fleet maintenance costs but also overall operating costs. And we’re recognized externally for a number of awards on that but what’s most important for us in the rewards is when our customers entrust us with making the trucks for them.
So, I believe that we are uniquely positioned to continue to lead in this area. And our opportunity is also to build the same leadership position with all of our utility vehicles. Today we have strengthened large utilities, whether it is Explorer or Expedition but also in small utilities as well with EcoSport and Kuga and Escape. And if you think about this segment, the global utility segment grew 55% from 2010 to 2014 and that was during a time period where oil was a $100 a barrel. And even since then, we’ve seen even more growth in the utility segment around the world, and we’re taking action to have a larger share of that growth going forward.
So, now, it’s around also building momentum on where we’ve been underperforming. And if you look at Edge for example, our new Edge in Europe, our mix has actually exceeded our expectations and actually our pricing in Europe for Edge is why we’re running that of luxury SUVs. We’re also going to be introducing the Vignale version which is a very high-end series into the marketplace in the fourth quarter as well as a Vignale version of our S-MAX utility and our Kuga utility. And in China, we localized Edge production last year, we now have a seven-seat Edge, and our sales so far this year are double than what they were last year.
In EcoSport, both our production and new markets are also expanding. And also importantly, we’re bringing the aluminum innovation that we brought to the full-size pickup segment; we’re now bringing that to the full size SUV segment with the upcoming first all new models from us in 14 years that will be coming next year. And then finally on top of that, over the next four years, we’re going to introduce four new utilities globally into segments that we currently don’t compete in. So, we have a lot of activity in front of us.
If we talk about another profit pillar for us, performance, this is a great business for us; it grows the bottom line in terms of profitability; it builds our brand; it drives excitement; and it creates these brand advocates around the world which are fantastic. And this is a very important part of our business. To put it into perspective, this year alone, we will probably sell over 200,000 performance vehicles; that’s more than double three years ago. So, it is a profitably growing important part of our business. And some examples of that, we’ve received over 6,500 applications for our new Ford GT, the first 500 cars. I think our win at Le Man helped and many of those customers have put down payments at our dealers. The Mustang GT 350 and the 350R for the model year 2017 model year sold out. Our Focus RS which we’ve introduced for the first time globally in every region, sold out. And we’re also going to be introducing the F-150 Raptor in the fourth quarter this year, the second generation Raptor, and we’re going to introduce it for the first time in China as well.
And we’re not stopping there, because we’re absolutely on track to deliver 12 new performance vehicles between now and the end of the decade. Also building our strength -- let’s talk about Ford Credit for a movement. Building our strength there and continuing to grow the business is a key priority for us. And Ford Credit is a very important strategic asset for us because they not only help drive very high customer loyalty, they also generate consistent and less cyclical profits for the business. And at the same time, our team at Ford Credit knows how to take care of customers. They are usually at the top of the JD Power sales satisfaction or satisfaction survey for financing. And I strongly believe that the strong business discipline really underpins our success at Ford Credit. And the team has been able to grow their receivables more than 60% since 2010. And when you think about it, they are going to play a very key part in the emerging mobility businesses, in terms of finding new ways of financing car sharing or even more flexible payments.
And then turning to our Ford Customer Service division, it doesn’t get a lot of attention, but this is a very important profit pillar for our Company and it is growing. To give an example of that, our Quick Lane tire and auto centers, we have about 1,000 stores today, that’s going to be growing by about 25% this year alone and a lot of that growth is going to be in Europe and in Asia Pacific.
So, what I would like to do now is I would like to turn to what areas or what we’re doing to transform our core business where we haven’t been, let’s say, satisfied with our pace of progress. And I would just like to point out that we have teams lead by senior members of the management team, examining each of these areas, including the business models and we’re making choices to transform these businesses. So, each one of these strategic priorities has a senior leader in charge of driving it.
So, let’s start with luxury where we are already starting to make progress. Now, our commitment and my commitment is to make sure we turn Lincoln into a world-class luxury brand with a product lineup and client experience to match and strong returns for the Company. Now, we’ve introduced four new Lincolns over the four years. And when the new navigator comes next year, we will have completed what I’d call the first generation of our transformational products. You’ll get a chance, as Ted said, to drive the Continental little later today, so you can make your own judgments on how we’re doing. But what’s clear is that the marketplace is responding.
And if you look at our sales for example, in the last four years, our sales are up almost 80%. We’ve had a very strong reaction in China where we introduced the brand. And actually Lincoln’s brand image is equal to Lexus in China. But it’s also not just the products; it’s also about the client experience. And in China, the team introduced something called the Lincoln Way, which is a very warm and personalized approach to client experiences and it’s been really well received, and we’re actually now implementing that here in North America. And customers are noticing, you can see from the improvements that we made from the various external surveys. In addition, Lincoln just displayed Lexus as number one on the American customer satisfaction index that was published a couple of weeks ago.
And so, we’re working now on the next generation of products, but also at the same time continuing to improve the client experience and working further to strengthen the brand. But we are just as equally committed to making sure that Lincoln is a consistent profitable contributor to the Company. Now, we know we are on a journey on this, but everybody in our team knows there is no blank check here. But the early results are really encouraging for us.
So, what I’d like to do now is turn to another strategic priority, reinventing our small vehicle business. And we’re intensely working on our small vehicles. And it’s not only because small vehicles are literally the largest segment in many regions around the world, it also is the introduction for the first time for customers to the Ford brand. And if you think about our position in small vehicles, we have some real strength. Fiesta is one of the top V cars in the world, Focus is one of the top compact cars in the world, and EcoSport is one of the top small utilities in the world. But the key is taking that marketplace success and turning it into financial success. And we have a very clear understanding of the five key elements that drive profitability in small vehicles, everything from brand resonance, all the way to complexity reduction. And when we look at our programs and development right now, they contain great progress in each one of these areas. And let me give you one example.
Focus back in 2015, we had about over 200,000 orderable combinations. This model year, we have about 300 and the next-generation model that’s coming soon is approximately 30; that’s a 99.9% reduction in orderable combinations. Now, the business benefit to that, well, it’s about $250 to $300 of savings in costs in each vehicle when you reduce that amount of complexity. And from a customer standpoint while when they come to one of our dealers and walk on our lots, they are going to have a much higher likelihood that what they want is on that lot and they can buy that.
So, one of the also biggest drivers of profitability in small cars of course is a manufacturing cost and we’re making a lot of progress in this area as well. Within the next two to three years, a majority of our small vehicles will be built in low cost areas. And for example here North America, we will have migrated all of our small car production to Mexico and out of the United States. But to create value, we know it is not just about serving all market for the full family of vehicles. We have to assure ourselves that there is a path to sustained profitability at the same time. And if there isn’t, we’re making the tough decisions, and you’ll hear about some of those decisions in the months to come.
So now, let’s take a look at emerging markets, another one of our strategic priorities, and building a leadership position in select emerging markets. And select is a really important word here, because it’s about where we can win. And today when you look at emerging markets, it includes Russia where we see good potential in a higher fuel environment. Russia has the potential to be one of the top three markets in Europe. We all know tough times economically that it’s been going through, but we made the decision to stay and I think that was absolutely the right decisions. And I think the improvements that we’ve made in the product lineup, the improvements that we’ve made in the distribution network and the improvements we’ve made in the business structure really position us well for when the market turns around. And we’re not even waiting for the markets turns around. Even in the last year, we’ve seen much better market performance and financial performance in Russia.
In India, we have set up India as an export base for small vehicles. However, our market performance, and our financial performance has not met our expectations. So, we are in the process of reevaluating our strategy and our business model for India, and our new mobility business could be a factor. That’s why you saw us about a month ago take an equity position in Zoomcar, which is the largest car sharing service in India. But what is clear to us on emerging markets, just like I mentioned on our vehicle lines, we have to convince ourselves that there is a path to sustained profitability. And if there isn’t, we make decisions. And that is why, for example, we decided to exit Japan, we decided to exit Indonesia and we decided to close down our manufacturing operations in Australia, which will be closing as of next month.
So, now, what I’d like to do is return to growth and our priorities, the strategic priorities focused on the emerging opportunities. And our position is clear to us. We want to become a top player in electrified solutions, and I call it moving from a compliance mindset to one of leading where we can win such as with our commercial vehicles. We want to lead in autonomy. And as many of you know, we announced, we plan to have -- we intend to have a fully autonomous Level 4 vehicle introduced into the marketplace in 2021 in either a ride hailing or ride sharing service. And we want to develop transformative new services and business models around mobility where they make sense. There is a lot of discussion around, what is the business case of being in here. But I think it really comes back to how we’re expanding or business model to be an auto and a mobility Company. And I strongly feel that we are very well-positioned to take advantage of these opportunities.
So why do I feel that way? First, we have a globally recognized and admired brand that not only attracts customers, attracts great partners. We are a proven systems integrator. For decades, we’ve been integrating increasingly complex technology, electronics and software, whether that’s been developed organically or whether with suppliers. Systems integration is absolutely key in this business. And we’ve also I think demonstrated over time a very unique capability to rapidly scale and democratize strategic innovation and technology across our business rapidly. And I also think we have some things that others don’t. We have a terrific, financing arm that many in the industry would love to have. We also at the same have a very strong distribution, sales and service assets around the world and great dealers, all of which lend themselves to these new opportunities.
So, let me go through the business case for a moment, why, why we should look at this? Well, if you look at this chart here, you could see our traditional business, if you add up all the OEMs around the world, it’s about a $2.3 trillion business; we get about 6% of it or about $150 billion. If you open up the aperture of the lens on this to transportation services, you can see it is more than double. And in the next 10 to 15 years, it’s going to grow faster than our traditional business. So, we are really rethinking our business models in both of these areas, both the owned and shared and importantly the ecosystems that underpin these.
So, let me talk about ecosystems for a moment. First up, what is an ecosystem? Well, essentially, it’s just new business models and services that are beyond the sale of a vehicle. And when you look at some of the new technologies, whether it’s electrification or autonomy or connectivity, this is really going to drive the development of what we call mobility ecosystems and we think we can capitalize on this for our business. I have to tell you, this is very different thinking for us. For years, we have always thought about the thing and how many of the things that we sold. And now, again, as I said, we’ve opened up the aperture and the lens on this to think about the usage of our products. And when you do this, it opens up a lot of business model innovative approaches for us to consider. But, as we think about that, it has to start with what’s our point of view on these emerging opportunities.
So, what is our point of view? Well, let’s take a look at autonomy. Very clearly we see huge social, environmental, and economic benefits from autonomy. And at the same time, as we evaluate future business opportunities, again, we’re focused on usage, where actually miles travelled becomes an important metric for us to look at. And so, we see autonomous vehicles accounting for 1 in 10 miles travelled in the U.S. by the end of the next decade or 2030; and as the car park transitions, that translates into one in five vehicles sold. Now, that is based on our assumptions around timing and costs and adoption rates.
Now, in terms of the product and the technology, as I mentioned, our intent is to introduce a Level 4 fully autonomous vehicle in 2021. But you notice, I am using the word autonomy and not autonomous, and the reason is because this is both around the product but also the business model that this can create for us. And if you think about the economics of autonomous vehicles, let’s say used in a ride sharing or a ride hailing service, they are very compelling when you take the driver out of the equation. You completely change the economic proposition on this, and it significantly reduces the cost per mile. So, essentially, you shatter the historical cost benefit trade off. And when something becomes less expensive, people use it more. And so, we see higher -- passenger miles going up but also at the same time, it expands mobility solutions for many people that are underserved right now, whether it’d be elderly folks or handicapped people.
Another big change that we see over the next decade is the cost of ownership conversions for electrified and internal combustion engines. And this is going to be driven by a combination of improved technology and scale for electrified vehicles but also at the same time, higher costs for internal combustion engines, for example to meet regulatory requirements, increasing regulatory requirements and also higher fuel cost over time. And so, we believe this is going to drive significant growth in electrified vehicles during the next 15 years. And that’s why for example we’re investing $4.5 billion by the end of the decade to introduce 13 new electrified vehicles to our product portfolio around the world.
And here again, it is about making choices, and investing in electrification where we can play to win, such as building on our strong commercial vehicle portfolio. And this is also not just about the product, it’s also about providing services and business models that not only support electrification but also at the same time provide a compelling customer experience as well.
So, our focus as we move on to mobility and our strategic priority on mobility, again, I will take us back to our view. Our view is that the world has moved from a mindset of just owning vehicles to owning them and sharing them. And again, it’s all about developing services and business models that can serve unmet needs, unmet needs of customers or unmet needs of cities. And our view is that this can be enabled by platforms that underpin services but can span both the owned and the shared businesses. And these platforms around things like connectivity, FinTech, autonomy and data and yield management; these are going to underpin our mobility businesses, just as our hardware platforms underpin our core products and our core business. So, think about it from that standpoint.
So, let me sum it up. We have aligned around our vision and our business strategy. And we focused our team around growth, risk, returns and rewards that will drive valuation of the Company going forward. And we’ve prioritized our efforts around fortifying our profit pillars, transforming the underperforming parts of our business and growing in the emerging opportunities. And we’re doing all that and reallocating our capital and focusing on where to play, where not to play and how to win. Now, underpinning all this is making sure we have a very clear eyed focus on the capabilities and the organization that we need to be successful. And I think we understand what it takes to succeed and we’re building on our strengths while at the same time making significant changes to further strengthen the capabilities that we need to build the new Ford.
We have more than a century of manufacturing experience, but we also have a huge advantage with our vehicle, our platform and our systems integration today. We have already made significant changes, for example, in product development and marketing focusing on really understanding the customer, taking a designed thinking approach. We are working with some of the leading figures in the world on this and really evolving into a true customer centric business.
We are making the needed organizational changes; that’s why you saw the creation of Ford Smart Mobility LLC. And finally, we’re also investing in the technology platforms that I mentioned, like our data analytics capability that you’ll hear a little bit about later this afternoon. We’re also investing in software companies that will allow us to not only speed up our software development but to build our capabilities as well, particularly around applications. And so, I really feel we’re coming from a position of strength in this area but we’re very clear eyed in knowing that we need to continue to move fast in this area. We’ve also created a global strategy team which includes a business development function and an M&A function, and we brought in some great outsiders into our team in combination with some of our Ford folks. And this is going to pay a lot of dividend so that we can be prudent, but also at the same time being nimble as we look at some of the business model, expansions that we’re thinking about, but also some of the technologies that we’re looking at as well.
So, as you go through the day today, you’re going to hear a lot from our team members. You’re going to hear a lot on both our core business and also the emerging opportunities. You’re going to hear a lot on how we’re evolving from an auto Company to an auto and a mobility Company. You’re going to hear evidence that our core business is robust and defensible with a sustainable dividend and you’re going to hear clear evidence on why Ford is a solid investment with an attractive opportunity on upsides to the emerging opportunities. And our goal very simply is to have you walk away with a very clear understanding of why Ford and why now.
And so, let’s get underway. And if you show the next slide, you’re going to have a number of speakers today, key members of our management team. Raj is going to come up and talk about Autonomy; he is the leader for that strategic pillar. Jim Hackett is going to talk about Mobility and of course we’re going to have Paul Ballew, talk about Data and Analytics and of course Bob will come up and talk about the financials. And to kick us off, we’ll be Hau Thai-Tang. Hau not only leads the purchasing function, but is also a previous senior member of product development to talk about electrification. Thanks.
Hau Thai-Tang
Thank you, Mark. Good morning, everyone. My pleasure; I am very excited to take you through electrification, which is the first of three strategic priority areas, really targeted at capturing value in this fast growing, emerging business opportunity, as Mark touched on.
I’d like to start with why we view electrification as a strategic priority for us. Electrification is first and foremost is a change to the propulsion system in the vehicle. That statement in itself is very profound because for over 100 years the internal combustion engine has been a basic design assumption for our business, for our industry. So, our teams are viewing the shift in the propulsion system is not only an opportunity that we design the vehicle architecture but to really rethink longstanding and widely held beliefs around what customers prefer in terms of attributes, the basis for cost as well as the driver for differentiation in the marketplace. Electrification is also a really key enabling technology for these other two emerging opportunities that we’re going to talk about later on, mobility services which Jim will touch on as well as autonomous vehicles which Raj will touch on.
So, electrification is a strategic priority because it’s a bridge between our core business and the emerging business. It’s an opportunity for us to play in these new profit and revenue pools where we don’t continue today. One common thread with all of our seven strategic priorities is a focus on the external environment with a keen eye on customers and their preferences. Macro trends such as urbanization, the growth in the middle class, changing consumer behaviors, the proliferation of e-commerce, on demand consumption, all of these things will drive increasing stress and strain on our transportation infrastructure. Consumers as well as governments are becoming increasingly aware of the impact of air quality and pollution. I think as the society, we have a greater understanding of CO2 and its impact on climate change. These factors will force consumers and governments to act and it’s going to drive increase in demand for sustainable transportation solutions, clean reusable renewable resources. Electrification is clearly part of the answer to solving these very important suicidal issues.
This isn’t a new revelation forward. We were one of the first movers in the electrification space. In fact, Ford was the first North American OEM to launch a full hybrid vehicle more than a dozen years ago with Escape hybrid. Today, we’re the best selling brand in the U.S. for plug-in hybrid vehicles and we’re the second best selling brand in the U.S. for electrified vehicles. We have a full lineup of electrified solutions, full hybrid vehicles, plug-ins as well as full battery electric. To date, we’ve sold over 0.5 million electrified vehicles. So, beyond these important marketing driving points, we’ve also have built a lot of technical expertise and real world and field experience. I’ll share with you one amazing statistic.
We have 45 million battery cells in production in the field; we want to do our service history. To date, we’ve had 5 known cases of where we actually had to repair and replace these batteries. That’s a reliability record of 99.99%, even better than Six Sigma.
Since we launched our first Focus hybrid in 2004 calendar year, we’ve seen a dramatic reduction in cost. Let me help to mention it for you. What’s running today in production in the field represents our third generation of our electric hybrid power pack. With every single successive generation that we’ve introduced, we’ve seen a 30% reduction in cost. We’re planning to launch the fourth generation next year and our expectation is to see the same level of cost improvement.
In addition to our cost coming down, we know through publicly announced actions from our competitors that the numbers of electrified offerings are increasing at a staggering rate; it’s about 18% compounded annual growth rate every year. In addition to the increase in supply, the infrastructure is coming on line. This is funded by both the public and the private sector. And finally, consumers are becoming increasingly aware of the benefits of electrification beyond just fuel efficiency. All of these factors will drive increase in demand and adoption of electrified solutions.
I mentioned costs, we’re partnering with our key strategic suppliers to really understand the entire value chain of electrification starting with the mining and extraction of the raw materials all the way to the landed cost of a completed battery pack into our assembly plan. Based on this work, we believe that the cost for a full battery cell will go below a $100 by 2025 as we reach the optimal scale. This is $95 per kilowatt hour. Beyond just the scale savings, we anticipate additional savings to be realized to improve chemistry, first with the next generation of lithium-ion batteries, but after that post lithium-ion with additional advances in the battery chemistry.
I would like to also take this opportunity to share with you our thinking around the make, buy decisions. This is something we do within purchasing with product development all the time. I can tell you with conviction that our approach of partnering with our suppliers around the battery cells is the most efficient way to realize the optimal cost structure. Why? Three key factors. First and for most, we can leverage scale, not only cross-OEM scale but cross-industry scale around the raw materials and the early part of the value chain. Secondly, we can leverage our purchasing might and global volumes that really take advantage of the free market dynamics and competition to further drive the cost down.
Thirdly and probably the most important, this is an area where we see a lot of changes in technology. By working with all of our global suppliers, we can tap into their R&D work and benefit from advances in technology. But we also have the flexibility to quickly transition as the technology landscape changes. We have seen some of our competitors struggle to adopt lithium-ion batteries, for example, because they had invested so much money in nickel metal hydride production.
So, as the cost comes down and the consumer awareness improves, we expect the penetration to increase. The industry will reach a tipping point. This is not Ford point of view; it is a consensus point of view. The chart that you see behind me represents a best curve fit of all of the external forecasts around the penetration of electrified vehicles. The view is by 2030, we will reach a tipping point with a number of electrified product offerings to be greater than the internal combustion engine. Ford is choosing to invest today to be prepared for this eventual outcome.
Let me elaborate on how we’re building on our early efforts to lay the foundation for long-term success, once we reach this tipping point. There are really four key elements to our strategy, the first one Mark touched on, playing through our strength, electing to compete in areas where we know we have a dominant position in the marketplace. Commercial vehicles, trucks, utilities and performance, these are sectors where we have iconic nameplate brands, tremendous favorable opinion and more pricing power. It’s also going to allow our product development and marketing team to take a different approach in terms of how we go to market and start to showcase the full benefits of electrifications beyond just fuel efficiency.
Building the brand and establishing credibility in this space is a second element of our plan. Certainly playing to our strength and focusing on areas where we’re already dominant will be key. We also want to augment this by launching a zero compromised full battery electric vehicles and for the first time offer them architecture that’s optimized for electric propulsion. This once again will allow us to show case the full benefits of electric propulsion and it’s going to serve as a halo product for the rest of our electrified vehicle portfolio. The third element of our plan is capitalizing on our core expertise of designing, manufacturing, engineering and purchasing for high volume production. We want to do this as the volume ramps up and the demand increases to really leverage and harness the scale savings. And the last element of the plan is really very exciting; it’s taking this ecosystem approach that Mark touched on earlier. Ford Smart Mobility, autonomous vehicle, there’s an intersection with both those work streams with electrification. So, think of an electrification as an enabler for us to really participate kind of much broader ecosystem around the usage of the consumers and tapping to that $5.4 trillion of revenue pool that we don’t compete in today.
As with most emerging business opportunities, the business case for electrification is going to be challenging until we reach this tipping point, until we establish the critical mass in terms of demand and reach the optimal scale. So, while it’s important, what we’re trying to convey is that we’re laying the foundation for long-term success. We see equal risk in going too fast before there’s adequate customer demand and broad market acceptance. So, our blueprint for electrification which is on the screen here is our approach to ride that sweet spot, ride that sweet spot in the curve in terms of demand and adoption as well as the scale enabled cost savings.
The first element of the plan we touched on playing to our strength, leveraging areas where we’re dominant where we can win, where we have more pricing power. The second element that we want to drive concurrently is really around the business model development and the ecosystem. Charging is going to be a very big part of this. The ability for consumers to charge their vehicles at home is game changing when it comes to electrification. It’s going to dramatically change the landscape in terms of value creation. We view this as a high touch point area between the consumer and the vehicle, and it’s an area where we want to play in. Our ability to really understand the vehicle charge state plus the consumer usage and their driving habits coupled with our capabilities around analytics gives us the ability to make this a friction-free experience and a truly brand differentiating experience for the Ford lineup.
It also gives us the opportunity to capture value in an area that we don’t participate in. So, Mark showed you that $5.4 trillion of revenue opportunity around transportation services, roughly a third of that, 30% is related to fuel costs. This is an area where we don’t play today and we have a wondering opportunity. It’s more than just a winning aspiration; we’re doing it today. Outside of our world headquarters building, two years ago, we announced a pilot that we’re doing with DTE Energy. We have the largest solar array in the state of Michigan and the second largest solar array in the Midwest, right outside our world headquarters. It’s trying energy from the sun and using that to allow our management fleet customers, our employees to plug in their electrified vehicles. We couple that with our analytics capability, we understand their use case, the average trip duration, how frequently they charge to help us optimize the battery sizing and the range because this is a very important factor in terms of the cost structure of electrification.
It’s also allowing us to work with DTE Energy to understand the impact of electrified vehicles on the overall energy grid. So, when we do these two things, it’s going to set us up for long term success and once we reach the tipping point to really capitalize on the up side.
I want to deep dive to one example of a near-term priority for us. Mark touched on multiple times this idea of commercial vehicles and electrification. Why do we find it so attractive? It is really two things. It is a sector that’s very conducive to electrification and it’s aligned within area where we are very strong. So, think of delivery as the use case rather than a vocation. It could be the delivery of good; it could be the delivery of people; it could be a contractor or a tradesperson; it could be a utility worker. What’s interesting and common with their use cycle is they have fixed routes, they have frequent stop and go driving patterns, they have periods of long idle, and they return to a home base or depot at the end of the day. This usage cycle is perfect and ideal for electrification. There are inherent incentives in this space as well. Many of our commercial fleet owners have told us they are becoming increasingly concerned about access to city centers. We know places in South America where cities have rotational schedule where you can only access the city centers based on odd and even days depending on your license plate. In China, they have auction systems to limit the number of new licenses. In Europe there is congestion charge.
I will use one example, in London, where we have a wonderful partnership with transport for London. For one commercial operator to access the M25 rings over one year of congestion charges between $3,500 to $4,000. When you add in the incentives that already in place to incentivize consumers to by zero emission vehicles, it’s about $15,000 incentive. This completely changes the total cost equation for these fleet customers. It is also an underserved market, we know through our relationship with these fleets that they’re buying aftermarket outfitter solutions that frankly are not very elegant solutions. They start at $15,000 for a mild hybrid and can go up with $30,000.
We believe we can go to market with a much more elegant, much more efficient solutions for these customers. Some customers are already actually vertically integrating and trying to build their own vehicle and we all know how hard that is. This is an area where Ford thinks we can do a better job. Finally, the sector is going to give us opportunities to get into adjacencies. The biggest one is managing the fleet of what we call vehicle management as a service, and Raj is going to touch on this in his presentation.
Mark did a wonderful job of covering the strengths. What I’d like to do is maybe share with you two examples of how we have leveraged our dominant brand position, our customer knowledge as well as our relationship with these fleets to transition the fleet. Think about what we did in North America when we transitioned the fleets from body-on-frame Econoline vans to utilized body Transit vans. That has been overwhelming success; we’re the number one brand in that space in the U.S.
Second example I would like to cite is think about the law enforcement fleets. You remember the concerns when we’re migrating them from body-on-frame Crown Victoria rear wheel drive V8 police cars to a unitized body SUV all-wheel-drive configuration powered by an EcoBoost engine. It’s been another great example of how we’ve been able to harness our relationship with these customers, our knowledge with these customers to help them understand the benefit in terms of productivity and total cost that’s enabled by technology. And we plan to do it again in the electrification space.
Throughout our 113-year history, we have demonstrated time and again what Ford is really good at, what differentiates us is our ability to scale up technology and commercialize it. The enabler for doing that has always been strong technical competency, systems integration capability and our competency around mass production. Those inherent capabilities are in place when it comes to electrification.
We have more than a thousand electrified vehicle patterns. We have a full line up of electrified vehicles and more importantly access to intellectual properties that allows us to go to market with the most efficient configuration regardless of drive configuration in the vehicle and by that I mean all wheel drive, rear wheel drive or front wheel drive.
We have wonderful knowledge and expertise so while we have elected to partner with the supply base on the battery cell, we have also elected to in-source the design integration and assembly of the battery past. Why?
Because, we have determined these areas to be brand differentiating they give us a competitive advantage and it also gives us the best value. The battery packs themselves once they are completed and are very poor shipper for us to optimize the landed cost that makes a lot of sense for us to actually build them up our sales versus paying our suppliers to do that.
So, I would like to wrap up by just reminding you that for the past century, our industry has been defined by the internal combustion engine. Our company has been defined by the internal combustion engine. We are after all the Ford Motor company. This shift for electrification is game changing. It gives us the ability to not only redesign the vehicle architecture but reimagine our role in terms of the value add that we provide. We are investing today to build the foundation for long-term success.
Until we reach the tipping point however. we believe our blueprint for electrification provides us with the most optimal approach in terms of the impact on the business during this transition phase. It allows us to play to our strength while simultaneously build the brand the ecosystem.
And we are most excited about what happens when we reach this tipping point. It’s not a question of if, it’s a question of when and we are showing you that we are building the foundation for long-term success that’s going to allow us to capitalize on this very fast growing emerging opportunity.
So thank you for your time. With this, I’d like to introduce my colleague Raj Nair who is going to take you through the next important emerging opportunity for the autonomous vehicles. Raj.
Raj Nair
Thanks Hau. I appreciate the opportunity for me to take you through our plan on autonomy. And specifically to lead not just in the development but the application of this technology to fully autonomous vehicles and especially the business model that this autonomous vehicle enables.
First off, I do want to get into some terms because there are some aspects and terms that are going to be new, that will be important to understand as we go through rest of this presentation. And first is the autonomous vehicle itself, the AV. And there is probably a misconception relative to technology that’s required to get to fully autonomous vehicles.
The first side what we call the virtual driving system is like that for a lot of the press what it has been exposed to. The software, the sensors, the electronics that actually replace that human driver and a tremendous amount of technology and work is required in this area.
What is less understood is the autonomous vehicle platform in that the vehicle itself that platform needs to change to be able to integrate the virtual driving system and for the operational driving system and as well as the tax operation that I’ll talk about later.
So a brief example of what needs to change in the vehicle and what you guys would call traditional automotive engineering. The power steering system in all of your vehicles right now, it's a safety critical system. Should the power steering motor fail the back up for that motor is actually human muscle that you have got a mechanical connection still with the wheels through your steering wheel that you can still steer in a vehicle, should that system fail.
When we go to an autonomous vehicle and there is no steering wheel in the car, should that motor fail that's the major issue. So, that's the type of system we now have to design redundancy in, in our base vehicles to enable a fully autonomous vehicle with no control.
Now there is two services that are enabled once we introduced on autonomous vehicle, the first is transportation as a service path, and I'm sure you guys have heard of it, point-to-point mobility for a fee, includes ride sharing, ride hailing, a dynamic shuttle or even as the transportation as a services for a package delivery.
The second is vehicle management as a service, if we were to have a fleet of autonomous vehicles the management of that fleet all the way from the vehicle acquisition through to financing, the insurance, the maintenance and even to the disposal of that is a business opportunity that could be enabled by the autonomous vehicle.
So, as you know back in August 16, we announced our intent as Mark stated to have a high volume, fully autonomous SAE level vehicle in commercial operation in 2021 and a ride hailing, a ride sharing service. This vehicle will be specifically designed for that commercial mobility services without a steering wheel, without a break pedal, without a gas pedal.
In order to deliver that you have also announced on August 16th several investments with partners, Velodyne, the leader in LIDAR sensors; SAIPS, a computer vision and machine learning organization in Israel that complements our expertise in that area. Nirenberg Neuroscience where we have established a licensing agreement for their machine vision and retinal encoder technology.
And Civil Maps to further enhance our 3D mapping capabilities and we will always be on the lookout for these type of strategic investments, because they collaborate and accelerate our technical approach of autonomous vehicle, our own in-build capability and complement that capability.
So, let's talk about the business type first, as to why we think that autonomous vehicle application to transportation as a service is a significant opportunity. So, this is just a graph of the price for model, the number of possible rides, and starting off with personal ownership, which is actually a pretty efficient economic model.
At the very highest level for the U.S. market personal ownership runs about $0.50 to $0.70 a mile and obviously very dependent on how many miles you drive as well as how expensive is the vehicle that you have. But if you are in personal ownership you are driving yourself, that the labor to drive this is your self employed in that aspect.
For the convenience of someone driving you, obviously, if you are well off enough you could have a chauffeur and a limousine but perhaps a more conventional alternative is the regular taxi service which is at approximately $6 per mile.
On the other end of the spectrum, the most efficient certainly is mass transit, at $0.30 a mile. But it's not personal mobility from Europe point A to point B, it's the convenience of the mass transit systems point A to point B and you are left about last mile to your home or to your office as to mange yourself. And you are also obviously sharing that with a lot of people i.e. the definition of mass transit. So the convenience isn't ideal.
The model that's obviously generating a lot of traction and a lot of acceptance is ride hailing, Uber being an example of that. And again, as the very highest level averaging about 250 a mile. Now if you were to take that ride hailing service and put in an automated vehicle into that economic model, this is what we do a dollar per mile.
So I want you to think about your own commute. I love driving, I hate my commute. If I had an opportunity to have a vehicle pick me up from my home and drive me here into Dearborn every day, those days a week and it would be cheaper then we personally owning a vehicle, I would jump on it. And I think that’s true for a lot of our customers. And so this is why we think this could really be a game changing aspect of how personal mobility is viewed in the future.
So why that economic model work? Well, if you take that $250 a mile that we talked about for a ride hailing service. We could see here that the vehicle, the cost of the vehicle is actually very small part of that $250. The servicing of that vehicle is actually very low. The operator cost and this would be the Uber’s or Lyft's of the world is actually a bigger portion then the vehicle cost and the service cost.
The major portion is the labor, the driver, so then when you need to look at it, is automation, autonomy just like we look at our automation, autonomy in one of our factories. The cost of the robot makes it worth the labor saved, then it’s a good investment. And so in the dollar per mile that I just talked about on autonomous vehicles the vehicle, the vehicle cost does go up, absolutely to more expensive vehicle that will have a very high level of utilization. The service cost goes up, but that service cost is an opportunity in that vehicle management as a service business that I talked about.
The operator cost actually goes down, because now you are spreading theoretically over a larger number rides the service cost less, therefore the usage should go up, we are also talking about an application software development that scales just against the volume and also you eliminate all the cost of trying to get drivers.
But this economic model is completely depended on your ability to have an autonomous vehicle and deliver its scale to this business. And therefore, that’s why we think this is a tremendous opportunity for us. Brining that opportunity and creating this economic model into transportation as a service.
So when we introduced or stated our intent to have a vehicle on 2021,we said it would be a Level-4 vehicle and that the restriction from Level-5 which is completely revising are able to do anything as human driver can do, is a Level-4 vehicle and our view would be in a geo-fenced area where we have a high definition 3D maps.
But I want to make sure that these geo-fenced area that we are talking about, are major metropolitan areas. Here you can see the type of area in New York City, as well as the highways that could service the local airports or to other geo-fenced areas. Or more locally here the Metro Detroit area and the corridors that could connect it to other geo-fenced areas.
So these are large metropolitan areas that actually happen to coincide very well with the coverage of ride hailing services right now. Within approximately from the time that you call the service to a 10 minute pick up at your point and take you on to your destination.
So therefore, under a pretty moderate adoption scenario in that type of fast ecosystems. We projected autonomous vehicle sales could grow up to 20% of total vehicle sales by 2030. So you couple that along with the opportunity of not just manufacturing and selling the vehicles, but participating in the transportation of the service opportunity, participating in the vehicle management as the service opportunity. You could see why this is such a large opportunity for Ford Motor Company.
So our plan is to continue to develop our fuse in autonomous vehicles, I understand some of you had a chance to drive in that vehicle on our campus today, continue to develop that vehicle. But the major point is to offer Level for autonomous vehicles, without a safety driver, without any menu controls, no steering wheels, no pedal, no brake pedals.
And again, not introduced at as some type of development fleet, but introduced it into a high volume commercial program and when we say high volume we mean over a 100,000 units a year and that's work that we have already started.
So why do we think we are in this position that we can deliver this technology. Well, as I have stated previously, you have been working at this for more than 10 years, that's when we had our first on road testing of an autonomous vehicle, that's when we started our relationship with Velodyne. That is when we were the only factory effort in the DARPA challenge.
There were other OEMs that participated but basically they supported university efforts and et cetera, ours was our employees, our truck in the DARPA challenge. And some of those employees are still with us, you may have actually driven with one of those employees in your test drive today.
And here you can see our increasing partnerships over the 10 year period of time whether it's with universities or with people like Velodyne or Civil Maps or SAIPS you can see our increase in our engineering and staffing, you can see the second generation vehicles coming on board, the first to test Mcity.
So our expertise has grown along with the size of our team and as I said you have been really thoughtful and strategic in our partnerships along this path. But you have also learned a lot. And one of those is our approach to these levels of autonomy. So this is a view of the SAE five levels of autonomy, Level-1 some of the assisted driving you'll have, Level-2, is the driver assist technology that are in production right now.
As I mentioned, Level-5 all the way to extreme capable of doing anything a human driver can do. But Level-4, autonomous in that geo-fenced area and with the right climatic conditions and that you have been working on this 10 years you have learnt a lot.
And we had a path of our research teams working with Velodyne and to light our equipped vehicles, but you have also been working on driver assist technologies and you have been a leader in introducing those driver assist technologies into the mainstream, into our Ford brand vehicle, even into our entry vehicles like our Focus with its automatic parking.
And four or five years ago we had a due that we could continue to introduce driver assist technologies, so radars and the camera based technologies continue to walk those up from Level-2 to Level 3 to Level-4. And even internally we had a bit of debate about whether that was going to be possible. And about three or four years ago we concluded actually that approach was not going to work.
And for two reasons, one, the higher levels of automation you get to and Level-2 or Level 3 the more the human machine interface becomes a problem. If you are stating you can't handle it and there will be percentage of time that you have to hand back over to a human driver, the higher percentage you are automated the less likely you are going to be able to hand over to that driver in appropriate period of time. They simply won't have the situational awareness.
And if you try to introduce technology to make sure they have the situational awareness, like tracking eyes for example to make sure the eyes are on the road then we found through our research that customers find that increasingly annoying. They are expecting the vehicle to be automated, you are constantly reminding him to keep their eyes on the road and then they are wondering. And then they are wondering why did I pay all this money for the future if it is actually just going to keep my hands on the wheel and my eyes on the road. What is the point of the automation?
The second was on the technical aspect. We found we could safely get through scenarios that really concerned us without adding technology like LIDAR and like high definition 3-D maps. Once you go to that point, you really have the solution for Level-4.
So we change our direction from walking up driver assist technologies to camera-based and radar-based technologies increasing that percentage et cetera to all the way leapfrogging to what does it take to get to Level-4? What does it take to get rid of the driver? What does it take to get rid of the steering wheel? The pedals? And then working on that technology problem and the result of that is what you hopefully had a chance to experience today.
So a little bit deeper into our approach. There is two aspects of what you can approach this problem with. The first being called direct perception, the second being called mediated perception. I want to take you through the differences in this and what different about our approach. So first off, it’s the sensor suite that we are talking about.
I talked about the camera, I talked about the radar, we also have the ultrasonic sensors that are very good for close proximity objects around the perimeter of the vehicle, but also the LIDAR for detecting and tracking distances and also for use at night. And we are direct perception does is it takes that sensor data, fuses that data and then in real time on-board interprets what the environment of what that data is saying and then what the vehicle should be doing relative to that environmental data.
Mediated perception is taking that LIDAR data in particular and then comparing it to previously established high definition 3-D map that’s been allocated with what all those objects are. So then the vehicle can compare against that map precisely determinate location. But perhaps even more importantly understand exactly what all those objects are that have been previously defined, previously annotated.
And I will take you through an example why that’s important. But first off, just a little bit of background on the type of development that’s required to get to full Level-4 autonomy. And for us the most important aspect of the development plan is working through the scenario, this scenario is being what are the vehicle maneuvers in a certain environment, the noise factors that can happen and making sure the vehicle capable managing that.
And what we found is you can actually in the tens of thousands of scenarios that we have generated, and not necessary generated to autonomy vehicle research, but generated through 113 years of building cars and a significant number of years to developing driver assist technologies, and knowing all the scenarios that our vehicles in counter.
And those tens of thousands scenarios as you can managed 10% of those, you can actually managed 95% of your operational miles. That remaining 5% of your operational miles that is the really difficult part of the problem. Those corner cases, those rare extreme circumstances.
And so that’s also why although miles, generating miles on the road is necessary, it’s not nearly sufficient. And it’s actually not a very efficient way of developing your vehicles doing random miles in a city. You will certainly find some incremental scenarios, but it’s more important to be designing and stimulating those scenarios and then testing those scenarios in controlled environment to ensure you can reliably repeatedly handle those scenarios.
So what we look at is how many scenarios we capable and that’s how we attract the development program, since we driving miles. Again, although necessary, it’s not nearly sufficient to develop a fully Level-4 autonomous vehicle. So here is a scenario example just to take you through how all of this works together.
This is a scene of a vehicle making a right hand turn at a stop light. Will have previously have mapped this location, so this is the high definition 3D map so we will know there is a stop light there, we know that there is a left hand lane turning lane there, we know that there is actually lamp post on the corner so we can precisely locate the vehicle to that. The LIDAR will then see this environment in real time.
The radar combined with the LIDAR and the cameras can track moving objects like the vehicles around it. The cameras will recognize the people and the color of the street light indicating whether its red or green and the vehicle need to be stopped at the intersection. And then we combine all of this, both in terms of the direct perception data as well as the high definition math to ensure we understand the environment robustly.
But let me talk through another scenario as to why we believe this direct perception and media perception is required. I can’t speak to what happened in the Tesla accident that’s hit the news. That’s for Tesla and NHTSA to go through the data and figure out. What I can tell you that’s one of the scenarios that we had concerns about even before the accident.
So the scenario that really is challenging for the technology is a non-divided highway. So a non-divided highway is really difficult because closing speeds are extremely high. These are 100 mile and hour plus closing speeds in these two opposing cars, or two opposing vehicles.
The second thing that’s difficult is a left turn scenario because that is very little reaction time when a vehicle makes a left turn in front of you on a non-divided highway at those highway speeds. So the ability to handover to a driver and for a drive to quickly understand the situation and what is happening is a very limited time for him to gain situational awareness.
A white trailer coming across is difficult for the sensors, the white trailer against a white cloudy background is very little contrast ratio for the camera to pick it up. So it’s very possible the camera would no pick up that object.
A trailer is difficult for radar, it is very possible for the radar can shoot underneath the trailer into the gap and therefore not recognize the object. If it were to pick up the trailer, it’s very difficult that range for the radar determine from the ground plane what is the height and what is that gap and so it could misinterpret that trailer as an overhead sign.
The LIDAR would do a better job at that long distance in picking it up but it could also have the same problem of really truly understanding ground plain and how it hides this object it could interpret it as an overhead sign. It could say I am confused, I need to hand bag but again that’s enough time in these high closing speeds perhaps for a driver to come back and understand the situational awareness and understand what is going on.
But if you were to take that LIDAR data, that laser data and then compare it to a high definition 3D map that you already have and understand that environment and actually that map is telling you there is no overhead sign there. And you need to take action, and you need to break and avoid this object.
That’s why we believe this direct reception approach and this mediator perception approach is required to safely handle that type of scenario which is not that unusual scenario and it’s one that any drive could handle. So therefore our belief if you are going to introduce that type of functionality to a customer to do it safely, you need to have this level of technology.
So some key takeaways.. First, we recognize this as a significant business opportunity for the reasons I have outlined. We have been working and have been a leading player in autonomous vehicle technology for over a decade and I hope you saw our capability in the vehicles that are on the road testing today as we speak. We have been testing with safety drivers since that initiation of the project 10 years ago.
We are in a very unique position not only to marry the technology aspects but our proven ability to commercialize those technologies at scale, particularly in the automotive environment. And this is all leading to our intent to introduce this high volume Level-4 autonomous vehicle in production in 2021 to serve in that transportation of them seamlessly.
So with to talk a little bit more about mobility, and some of those opportunities, let me introduce my colleague, Jim Hackett.
Jim Hackett
Good morning. We are going to have a break at the end of this, so if you can just hang in there for a few minutes. I appreciate it. When Pat asked you all the stand up to kind of characterize where you came from, we didn’t know where everybody - linear were going to stand up.
One thing I was sure of is that I knew that each one of you accessed the electrical grid this morning. I could pretty much count on the fact that you took advantage of the Internet, or that you had been on the phone either through texting or voice. Each of those are a system and integrated system. And he was asking you about your role in the transportation systems.
My early work here at Ford and mobility is mainly believe that there really isn’t yet designed a transportation system. How could I make such a bold claim? We all think about it. If you got up every morning and the electrical grid with stuck in a jam so to speak, you wouldn’t stand for that. It would be soon that we have been making a lot of noise.
But every morning I drive from Ann Arbor to Dearborn today specifically got caught in a traffic jam, I got here later than I thought. When I get cranky about it I think hey that’s my job, I am supposed to fix this problem. So I’m enthused about the fact that we get to stand back and think about as Mark said think about this opportunity as a system.
So, Ford’s bias in the way it's thinking about mobility, there is a transportation system here. Now our history has been to have a role as people own vehicles in that system. So, on the left you see that there is about 30 vehicles sold every minute in the U.S. And on the right there is a number of other activities that go on. Our 450,000 bytes of data that the car is talking to the cloud and vice versa, or there is a 125,000 Uber taxi kinds of events each minute.
And then I take special note of their 60,000 drive shared in that one minute in the U.S. And it's that share areas that become really interesting to us. And so what we started to frame as you saw Mark introduced is, is let's think of our business as two models in parallel in the future, because we got to make room for the sharing part in the new transportation system.
So on the left you have the ownership model, you know it well and you saw the vehicles that we sell in that system, we have had over 100 years of success. We had record profits in that system. We are proud of that business. And it isn’t been said a few times a day, we don’t want to do anything to make that business less attractive. We are really committed to keeping its vitality high.
On the right, the share opportunity, well there is a number of ideas out there. And you know a lot about many of them. Uber is the catchphrase for what sharing is. So Mark started two years ago as CES talking about this sharing opportunity and he wanted to get at the question of where to play and how to win. And in doing that we created these 30 experiments that told us a lot.
What it told us is, that if we thought of the transportation as a system there are these modes of use inside of that system. They are simple, they are vehicles, they are people walking or bicycles and in an historic way when we thought about the ownership model we kind of thought vertically could we sell vehicles into that system.
Well with the work that I have started with the team of really important people here at Ford, we are thinking about the horizontal linkage in that system. And the horizontal linkage is where we now get the opportunity to play in a different way. Quite simply, we want to reduce the pain points that customers have in that system. As they make their way particularly in dense cities, they have to deal with a while and we think we can improve that.
So how big is this sharing is going to be, you have heard a lot it, but let’s just ground ourselves in it one more time. On the left we have U.S. shared miles that are traveled. And on the right the total U.S. passenger miles travel. Now you see on the right in 2025, but the total miles traveled is still around 5 trillion. And there is a small slice of that big number that’s shared.
So this is why it’s such a big opportunity the sharing potential is big. But kind of the good news is it then destroyed the own vehicle model. On the left we still are selling lots of vehicle, this is why it’s said it’s really important to us in the future but the own model is successful.
So a good question is, so why is this an opportunity, why sharing particularly attractive to Ford? Why not just invest in it in parallel? Well this slide as showing earlier, is to try and explain that to you. First, for every transaction on the left, say one, there might be 1 million to 10 million transactions on the right, how we know that? Well, think of you this morning. Many of you took advantage of some sort of shared motor transportation to be here today.
But I doubt if any one of you bought a car today and we do buy a car to really profitable to us but it doesn’t happened at often and that’s why we need a separate business model. Now the link to Ford then is important, because these platforms that were creating can serve both of these businesses.
Now you heard about autonomy from Raj, that matters a lot, when you start to hear the potential of us to provide vehicle management services. FinTech you heard from Mark that has contributed in the last 20 years over $40 billion in dividend to the owned side of the business in our Ford Credit organization. But if we have 10 million transactions on the right, then there is a lot of payment opportunities here for Ford as well, so that’s why FinTech is a platform.
So let me give you an example that maybe isn't as obviously. Let’s take connectivity and I’m going to sneak data in there as well. On the owned side when my wife and I go to a store, say we go buy glossaries in the future, the car knows exactly where we are, it knows which door we both got out of. It knows how long we are in the store and when we came back, it all know where we put the groceries, because of what we activated to place the groceries and merchandise back in the car. It will know if it was raining that day, it will now as much as you want to let it know. Ford won't take that data unless customers okay it, but that platform on the left gives us the opportunity to have all kinds of innovations potential.
On the sharing side, it's similar. My son in L.A. might be taking advantage of a shuttle, we know really what routes he is taking, how often does he take them. We can even find out if he is travelling with friends like a social network. Now the power in that is that we can configure the service towards him and there is other things that we can now monetize because we start to know the customer that intimately.
Well, with this framework of modes of transportation in a bigger system and own-in share you are going to say, okay, so Jim has anything happened, what is Ford doing in this space? We went from that divergent thinking two and half years ago 30 experiments, we knew what we didn't want to do, for example, we knew that we didn’t want to get in businesses that didn't provide profits. We weren't looking to try and expend lots of capital, but sharing business doesn’t need as much capital as their own side does.
So that we then created an LLC, I got to be the guy on the stage with no tie today. I’m allowed to be independent and it's encouraged, but I have the benefit of great colleagues at Ford love the company, love the potential that I have to use that capability, but I’m encouraged to think about this business uniquely. One of the first things I did was create an incubator out in Palo Alto called Greenfield Labs. It's a joint venture with IDO to help us understand use in a unique way.
We have announced since we started this new initiative an enterprise called City Solutions and this came about because we were being asked by many of the cities in the U.S. that we are pursuing the Department of Transportation grant, there were over 78 of them. We helped finalized 20 of those proposals.
But here is the challenge; there has not been much study of sharing. How many of you gotten into Uber and been kind of grossed out about how dirty the car is or you have to kind of make way in terms of getting yourself in and out of it. So this graphic has explained really simply that the challenges fought to find the gap between the way things are made and the way they are used.
So this design gap is an opportunity for Ford and we are reporting to Greenfield Labs organization. I have more to share with your overtime as invention comes from there. This is not a separate product development organization for vehicles, we get to use those platforms here, it's just raising the acuity of the way people use when they share.
Okay so, we stand back now and we look at the high altitude and let me draw your attention to the right side of the page and we say, here is where we are today. We peer through those modes of transportation that I mentioned and we take a view of the city as an ecosystem, Mark talked about that. We have named the cities really as customers for us and inside of that we are starting to piece together now these modes of transportation where we can have a role in playing.
So last week in San Francisco Mark and I announced a partnership with Motivate, this is a bike sharing company. Those of you who leave in New York will know it as City Bike. And in fact in New York last week, they were telling us they did 62,000 shares in one day, 62,000 shares in one day in New York City. So we introduced this in San Francisco, well what we are doing differently in San Francisco that isn’t done in New York as we put telemetry on that bike, telemetry is a form of communication.
So now the bike is pining data to us. Listen, here is the deal, the opportunity is not bikes, that’s not why Ford is in it. The opportunity is data. And the data super valuable, because it tells us these invisible paths that people are taking in this complex city in terms of how they want to get around. And there is something else cool about it, because we can take that data and we can connect it in ways that our new shuttle is going to connect to the cloud as well.
So at the same time, we introduce the acquisition of Chariot. It’s a startup, very small enterprise, great management team, about 100 shuttles in San Francisco. They have proven a lot of things to us that we were learning in our experiments, we were doing shuttle kind of experiments over the last two years. These folks made a business out of it. We know that this can meet our margin targets that Mark talked about.
So building on the success of trend, which is hey look at the gifts that I have been given, the number one commercial vehicle in the world to build this on to then tie it to these platforms. Again remember, lean startup means, I’m not spending a lot of money to create all that, I get to take advantage of these emerging at Ford. And we change the design, we get to make the use case for sharing better. I think it’s a really certain opportunity for Ford.
And it is in a space that you saw in Raj’s data that I have been able to confirm something recently in China, China is going to be a big market, obviously for something like this. So let me change the scale, the kilometers for a moment and say to you on the one end mass transits $0.03 per passenger per kilometer, $0.03, and at the other end the personal car is $0.75 per passenger per personal car right, per personal car usage, $0.75, $0.03. The shuttle in this big wide area at $0.08. Taxis and Uber are much more than the $0.75 as you saw from Raj’s presentation.
So difference between $0.03 and $0.08 means I get the opportunity for the shuttle to deliver me to a point where it’s not as much as hassle. And we have all the data of the way, they are using it. We are in the mass transit, it is not really well-known. We can do all kinds of things to optimize now that person’s mode of transportation.
Guess what, we can even take FordPass. This is our portal and we can have somebody in the future go into FordPass and say they want to go through these modes of transportation and it’s calculating based on their past experiences and the cost preference they have and the time they have to get to where they want to get and suggesting mode the transportation for them.
Here is a cool thing for the cities, for every shuttle that we could put in Shanghai, 25 less cars in congestion. That is not a threat to Ford’s own side because you saw the model that says, the ownership model doesn’t decay that much. But the cities, now they start to love Ford for another reason, because we are helping to reduce congestion.
From a business model perspective this is kind of the inside secret. If you just make a 10% increase in the passengers in the shuttle so imagine it's a 12 seat shuttle, I have got 10 people in it, if I can add one customer, because I have the data trying to get them to get on it, that's a 10% increase in occupancy I get a 30% increase in profitability. It's because the yield management, because the marginal fixed cost is zero, the cost doesn't rise and now we have the data to put people in the seats.
Well this is just chapter one of what we are doing at Ford with mobility. Henry Ford started with one vehicle, there is a lot more to come, I want you to be excited about this. I want you also to think about it as a pre-AV business strategy and then once the AV hits the market things start to get even more interesting, because in the play today with the bike and the shuttle in San Francisco.
And I should have said we are going to go to five additional cities in the next year and a half. We then have the potential later as the AV enters the market to be a source of revenue for us. And don't assume as you see these kind of emojies for transits that the box will be the same in the future, because as we start to understand use of sharing there is lots of things we can bring to customers.
So, how big is this opportunity, well what we have done for today's session is we are just scaling opportunities on a global basis in the total addressable market. I mean the shuttle for example the $100 billion to $200 billion opportunity. And it's estimated in China for example, the 75% of the population in 2030 will be urbanized, so I don't think I have to argue the case of densities requirements for this, it's going to be important.
We are talking to large fleet customers already, I'm seeing people wanting to come and talk to me after Mark announced the arrival of the AV vehicle in 2021, they are kind of calling up and saying we would like to turn over our fleet to you when that vehicle comes.
So, we are in the effort now of trying to value these other things, for example the FinTech platform, what would the payment systems potential be, but again just have to look at Ford Credit to understand why it's attractive to us. The bikes we really don't think that is a business in the sense of bikes, it’s the data, so that's why you have been either. We want you to hear data when we are talking about the bikes.
Well, you can read the summary of where we are but I would like to tell you the drama of this, Bill Ford gave a talk at Ted a few years ago, it's still online you can see it. So I looked last night, 772,000 views of that talk. I was in the audience when he gave that talk in Vancouver. The speech created ray reviews, because the head of an automotive company was suggest we had a broader responsibility in transportation. And that we have to help cities reduce congestion and at the same time make our core business better.
We are on a better way to understand that system today. To build these profitable and sustainable business models that leverage both owned and shared and platforms that feed both of them. And really simply put to help customers reduce the pain points that they live with and as Mark said to help people have a better day in their lives.
So, thank you very much and with that we want to let you know that we are going to take a break for about 10 minutes and enjoy the rest of the session.
Ted Cannis
All right everybody. I’m going to have to take you through it again, please. Welcome back for those of you listening online and everybody in the room here. Wanted to have you back again just for everybody’s reminder, there is an app as mentioned in the beginning of the meeting, that you can pull down on the app store in Apple or in Android to follow the conference, the presentation, the speakers. You can take notes if you want to. You can do that at home if you are listening online as well.
Obviously, we are going to get into some of the more forward-looking statements as we have done all through this in Bob’s presentation. So, as the normal risk factors are included in the presentation we sent out today. And there will be some non-GAAP statements and you could see the GAAP reconciliations in the back.
So with that, I would like to turn over to our next speaker, a colossal monument of talent, the great Paul Ballew, our Global Data and Analytics Director and guru. Paul.
Paul Ballew
Well, good morning everybody, soon to be afternoon. I greatly appreciate your time. As I was sitting there listening to Jim’s presentation, I thought what more of a mono could I get. Jim used the word data 14 times I kept track if you think about what we are doing as an organization. And it does reflect what I’m here to talk about today and that is our approach to data and analytics.
And to start off, I thought to do a couple of things. First, just to give you some sense of how we fit into overall grand scheme of things, going back to Mark’s overall structure that he laid out to kick off the session. How we do data and analytics is an essential core enabling capability for all parts of the journeys that we are on.
And we look at that across a number of different work streams which I’ll touch upon today, but what is essential is take away is that element that we see data and analytics is a core asset for us as a Company and that we are focusing on leveraging it across the business enterprise. So excitingly for me as I look at all the things going on in the industry and all the things going on in our Company we look at all the things going on in data and analytics and our goal is to marry that all together.
All right, having said that I want to leave you with three takeaways today I’m going to go through three topics. First, our approach to data and analytics and the overall investment we are making there and why we think that you need versus other vehicle manufacturers. That’s an important part of what we are doing in terms of our journey to fully leverage what data and analytics brings as a business. And so I want to spend a little times going over the last couple of years as we were building out this capability and to stress why we think we are taking a unique path.
Second thing I want to highlight the early wins and the benefits we are providing for the business right now and that will funnel into Bob’s presentation one time done, because we are going to talk about things that we are doing today to improve our efficiency, our effectiveness, certainly our cost structure in the business and doing so globally. And we have some highlights to talk about already.
While we have been doing down this path over the last 18 soon to be 24 months, we are focusing on making sure that while we are preparing for the future, we are leveraging insights to improve the business today, because we need to improve the business today given the competitive dynamics in the industry.
And then the last topic, I do want to talk a little bit about how we envision being prepared for the future. Jim talked about it. Raj talked about it, Hau talk about it. And one of the things against all of those future opportunities for us is the fact that they rest in a platform that requires data and analytics to provide support comprehensively.
And so, when we talk about what we are doing there is not just about buying a work flow tool, or buying a data stack, it's about tackling this in a way that gives us the agility and the capabilities that are really differentiating in the marketplace.
So first in terms of key takeaways I want to start off about our approach, because we do think our approach is unique. If you go back to before we stood up our organization that we call global data insights and analytics, we were an organization very similar to other companies; very fragmented; had pockets of strength and capabilities, for instance, in our case very strong analytic capabilities at Ford Credit.
But we were like other companies, where we weren’t leveraging those assets in a systematic way, helping all of the enterprise. In fact, if you deal with the Fortune 100 companies, most of them find themselves in this situation. They have made selective investments in data, they have made selective investments in analytics, they have made selective investments in tools and they try to solve individual problems.
In doing so, most companies sub-optimized. So we made a decision two years to stand up an organization, what we call a skill team and what that’s a lot of to do in a very short period of time, it make some quantum leaps that once again help us today and truly set it out for the future. Those quantum leaps include being able to manage data at high volume and high complexity, it allows us to bring forth analytic solutions to the business that cut across manufacturing and purchasing and product development.
And it’s also allows us to attract and retain talent in a very rapidly growing field. We are the only vehicle manufacture that has done this to this extend. And in doing so, we see that quantum leap accelerating each and every day by bringing out those capabilities and allowing us to deliver solutions to the business.
Good example of this is what we are doing just in terms of tapping the assets we already have. So if you look at the bottom half there are roughly 4500 applications or environments at Ford today, but slightly more than that. And those environment are transactional systems that were set up to provide business support. But within those transactional systems our great insights about improving our operation, about better connecting with our customer.
And it’s very important for any business, if you want to talk being insight-based or evidence based in your decisioning to fully leverage those capabilities and doing so on a global basis. We made the investments and the organizational changes out of the gate to leverage those assets, and again, I will cite in just a moment a couple of example of how that’s already helping us.
Then the second part of the journey is to be prepared so what is coming at us, whether it’s connected vehicle, third-party data, whether it’s new business tools and solutions we have to bring forward. Jim's example of yield management tools, those are levels of complexity of using data, generating insight through analytics and deploying them to our business partners that require making smart investments today, done efficiently, but making those smart investments today to be prepared to be able to leverage what the opportunity is.
The fact that Jim talked about bikes as being a data generation absolutely, but if you pitch something and you can’t catch it and you can’t make sense of it, all your doing is pitching. You are not catching and you are not making the difference to fully leverage what you are trying to achieve generally and behalf of our customers.
So that’s one take away, 