General Electric Company (NYSE:GE)
Credit Suisse Global Industrials Conference
December 02, 2014, 11:45 AM ET
Executives
Vic Abate - President & CEO, Power Generation Products
Analysts
Julian Mitchell - Credit Suisse
Vic Abate
Well, good morning, good afternoon. How is everybody doing? All right?
Well, listen, I look forward to the next 45 minutes. We can have some constructive dialogue. I want to share with you how we see the power generation space in GE and some of the things that we are excited about with some new product launches.
But before I get into the presentation I'll just kick it off with a little bit of background. I have been with GE since 1990. I am an engineer by training. I've been in various roles and responsibilities but all in power. So I am a 25-year power guy.
And from 2000 to 2005, I was the Vice President of Power Generation Technology, really focused on power generating equipment and the technical development of those products. And then from 2005 to 2013 I ran the Renewables business. And when you look at what has happened in the wind space over the last decade, really tremendous growth there.
So that was a great experience and challenge and over the last two years I've been leading what we call our Power Generation Products Business, which is our gas turbine business, which is really a core franchise in GE.
What I am going to do is, I am going to walk you through how we see the market. I am going to also explain how we think about the market and then some of our product launches that we have going on which we're extremely excited about with some advanced technology and how we continue to invest to maintain our leadership position in heavy duty gas turbine.
So just to kick it off to give you a framework for the total view of power and water, my business is in GE's power and water business and that's a $25 billion franchise. On the top left Power Gen Products is really our heavy duty gas turbines, steam turbines and generators and the responsibility that me and my team have is all about growing the install base.
New power plant, construction, new power plant equipment and continue to grow the install base for the foreseeable future and then the Power Gen Services, once units are commercial, that team maintains and services those equipment assets over the likes with the customers. So it's a $12 billion franchise. It's about half of power and water and we also have distributed power, renewables, water and nuclear.
And our strategy is really to have a portfolio of technologies for our customers to choose because everywhere in the world the regional economics, the regional challenges, the regional fuel types will drive the selection, but we believe over the long term, gas is a key selection criteria going forward.
If you look at our installed base, today we have over 4500 units operating. There's about 1,000 gigawatts in a gas fleet. Half of those have GE as the last name, so really a key part of our heritage and history, 190 million operating hours, the 2.6 million fired starts.
And when you look at the fleet data, customers who own GE gas turbines, actually have the ability to make more money than the others and that they perform better and reliability, availability and starting reliability.
Going forward, we see power demand growing. When you look at the demographics of just people, GDP, the investment in new power plants at $5 trillion that is really fueling $124 trillion of economic growth on a cumulative basis over the next decade. So this is something we're bullish on going forward and this is how we look at the market.
When you think about power generation, definitely look at two things. One is electricity demand and when you think about electricity, that's in terawatt hours, so billions of megawatt hours. So you start to look at what that means as far as the true energy that goes through the system, that growth, net of demand side management, net of energy efficiency, we see that growing with a 3% CAGR over the next decade. So that's a nice tailwind.
Also from a fleet perspective, that's an indication of how your fleet will run and the service revenue that our service business sees as a natural tailwind as these assets continue to produce electricity.
From a capacity perspective, think about it from a new power plant, we see that actually growing with a 4.3% CAGR and the way you get there is today there is 5,800 gigawatts of global installed power generating capacity. Over the next decade, 500 get retired either due to environmental regulations or just economic displacements as the assets become old and less efficient.
So then you grow from 5.3 terawatts to 8.1 terawatts and so you start to look at that growth as 4.3% and so that is the new unit demand for new power plants and then how they run is shown in the top and you can see the drivers, economic growth, population growth, demand side efficiency, things like LED lighting, things like more efficient TVs those tend to be headwinds.
And when you put all that in, in our models, we see a clear tailwind both on energy demand and new capacity demand, which is good for our power business.
Now this is a very interesting chart and I think it's insightful. I want to take a minute on it because it shows you how we think about the system and where we see the dynamics of the next decade. Here you can see the energy in 2013 and think about the energy as the blood that flows through the system, right.
So when you think about an energy system, you have capacity, the blood that flows through which fuels our service business, 23,000 terawatt hours flow through it in 2013 and you can see it by fuel type; coal, gas, hydro, nuclear, oil etcetera.
That's going to grow to 31,000 terawatt hours, net of efficiency and so you can see the natural flow is increasing, what is the capacity that's going to get added, the new arteries to facilitate that demand? And you can see it in the center shown as 3,400 gigawatts of new capacity over the next 10 years.
And for the first time, you see natural gas becomes the number one new capacity addition. Traditionally that chart has shown coal right, as the largest new addition.
So again this really shows our reason for being bullish on the gas base, now it's not that gas does everything right. There is still 75% left to be done or thereabout. So we play in wind. We play in nuclear. We play in hydro. We play in coal with steam turbines and the like, but on the gas side, it's the largest new addition of arteries and if you look at the energy that flows through it, the largest net add is gas.
So couple of key dynamics over the next decade that we believe shows that natural gas power is an area that we lead in today, we're going to continue to lead and we're making a $2 billion investment with our H product launch that we couldn’t be more excited about and I'll share with you, with some slides to come.
So why is gas power, what are some of the advantages and you know there is a slide like this for every fuel type. I can do it for wind, when I was running the wind business. You can do it for nuclear, but I think it's important to have in context how our customers think about installing new capacity and how they think about gas.
First, very efficient use of land, when you think about the power density that you get out of a combined cycle plant, you can get 80 megawatts an acre, which is about three times more efficient than other technologies like a nuclear plant and may be 50 times more efficient than a coal plant because of all the fuel handling that's required and while you can use dual use on wind, much more efficient than that too.
So clearly for efficient use of land, efficient use of capital, these are high capital intensive assets that last for 30-50 years. The lowest dollar per kilowatt for new capacity for a country is gas combined cycle, between 500 and 1,000 of kilowatt, clearly the most CapEx efficient, very efficient use of fuel. I'll show you our latest technologies are over 60% efficient and when you put it into combined heating power, you can get over 80.
So when you think about the use of fuel, very efficient there. In fact, cycle time is very important point to our customers. We have projects in the Middle East, places like Egypt, we'll close a deal in December and thereby gas turbines because they want it online running on oil to start up next May to protect their summer and demand piece that they're seeing. So the cycle time, you just can't do that with other dispatchable technologies.
Cleaner has the carbon impact of coal and you know the regulations of 111(d) and what's going on there and then it's there when you need it. So the dispatchable nature of a very CapEx efficient technology we believe provides a foundation for the continued adoption of gas around the world.
So with that here's our portfolio and one of the big pushes in GE and being a technical guy, we spend north of 5% of our revenue on R&D and so the real challenge is how do you take all that technology prowess and bring it to market and that's in what we call product management.
And so product management is at the center of doing that and so for our products business, that's a big part of what we do and here's our portfolio that we're extremely proud of and if you look on the left, you can see the top in dark blue, those are numbered nine, so that is -- those products support the 50 hertz market.
So you have a 9E, a 9F and a 9HA with a couple of options there. So for customers for different sizes of applications for the 50 hertz part of the world, we have a leading position in each of those. The lighter blue, the 7's, 7E, 7F, 7HA; those are for the 60 hertz markets.
And you can see again a leading position there and then the gray are geared. So that's a smaller machine that we use a gear, we can go 50 or 60 hertz with that, that's our frame six. And we've introduced these H turbines, which are the 7HA and what does that mean?
When I think about gas turbines, you have a power plant, which might be 15 acres and the whole system, the entitlement is set by the gas turbine and just to be a little technical for a second, the firing temperature and the pressure ratio, similar to like a get engine, defines the thermodynamic entitlement of how well you can convert natural gas to electricity.
And so the best gas turbine always has the best odds for the best economics and so gas turbine leadership is at the core of our product strategy and here's how it's played out. If you look on the right, you can see in 1972, we introduced the first E-Class gas turbine and that machine is still running today.
We have 3,000 running and that was firing at about 2,000 degrees Fahrenheit, which is just extremely hot by the way, your metal starts to melt and gets to be quite a challenge and over its life pushed to 2300 degrees and the efficiency was about 50%.
With the F's, which was a very successful launch back in the 80s and then the large U.S. bubble that many of you know in the 2,000, that fired at 2300 degrees, pushed to 2600 degrees. How did we do that advanced materials, advanced coatings, better computational horsepower just to calculate all those aspects of heat transfer inside the rotating reference frame of the engine.
So that takes materials and combustion, a lot of the stuff that we do in aircraft engine. We pull that into our power business to take advantage of those technologies and then the H is 2600 degrees to 2900 degrees and in 2003, we introduced our first H and actually I have a picture with the Queen of England with Baglan Bay, the first steam cooled H class, which is a 60% efficient platform for production back in 2003.
And what we're doing now a decade later is with air-cooled. And what air cooling does is it makes the technology more cost effective, makes it cheaper on a dollar per kilowatt, and the serviceability goes up almost fine order magnitude because the maintenance required is a lot less. Also it is much more flexible.
The turbine can start up faster, it can shutdown faster and as a result it plays well with renewables and what's going on around the world on renewable penetration. So, we're very excited about the H-Class and what it means is it is 60% efficient plus to 65. So, unlike other project launces we see the H as not just a product launch. This is an industry transformational step in next chapter of gas turbines.
And so what does that mean? If I'm a customer, it's a very compelling story. If I think about gas turbines, I think of output, efficiency and how long am I going to run. On the output side I want you think about a concept of four equals two equals one.
So you go back, if you wanted the power you used to get from four E-Class turbines, you then get with two Fs and remember the F build out was one of the most successful in GE's history and that was the CapEx productivity you got because the engine can produce twice the power, and that jump make our customers more productive on CapEx. While the H does it again.
So 1H=2Fs which was equal to 4Es. So the CapEx productivity is the largest and on a CapEx perspective it provides the most CapEx efficiency for gas power. On efficiency basis, E-Class was 50%, the Fs were 55% and the H we have a roadmap to 65% plus, puts you in the 60s. So we call this the high efficiency turbine and that fuel burn is worth tremendous amount and I'll go through that in a second.
And then because the H has the lowest cost of electricity on the dispatch curve it will be dispatched more. So if I'm an owner of that asset it's going to be run more and I make money when it runs. The whole system because better off and as a result it runs more than the Fs, more than the Es and the like. So this is good for customers. We see it being good for GE and a couple of points there, if you look at it from between now and 2030 let's build 500 H power plants or let's build you know the equivalent in Fs.
The reason our customers will go H and we'll show you some reasons or some statistics on that, $30 billion lower CapEx. So the industry saves $30 billion building out this next chapter with H just due to the size. Also that fleet that our customer own, they'll burn 80 billion a year or less fuel, year in, year out, year in, year out. And the beauty of that is we share on that with our service revenue. And the CapEx piece we play a role because we get the value of the turbines.
So those are H-Class from GE. It runs twice as much and we get more revenue per unit, more revenue per megawatt. So something we're very bullish about and we see going forward some opportunity to help our customers be more productive and competitive with the lower cost of electricity.
So where are we? How is the market acceptance? You know, when I think about power plants, you don’t go to bed Monday, wake up Tuesday, and with a power plant in New York, right? This is a long cycle process where there is development. There is financing, there is permitting and there is technical selection. So we work with customers throughout that whole process and we call that application engineering in our increased order process.
Today, we have over 100 turbines worth of transactions that are HA-Class going out around the globe. So tremendous amount of activity where customers are coming and asking and working with us on the output and efficiencies of their power plants using this product.
The other aspect is once they get to a point where they are going to go forward they make a technical selection between us and our competitors. 37 units now have been technically selected as GE where the customer has said, I am going with you, let's go finalize the permitting papers, let's get the financing and get this project going and then build it.
Of those to become an order we need a notice to proceed, down payment, contract and the like, 13 in four countries now are under contract to be built. So when you look at this adoption rate, we're seeing a very clear signal from our customers in the market globally, a tremendous amount of interest in this product and I think one of the big reasons is, our cash spend ability.
One of the things we've done is we've instituted a full speed, full load non grid connected test vehicle that no other OEM has in the world that can test these engines like no other and I've got a slide on that that will show you. But we're seeing that adoption rate very positive.
So this test facility, if you Google GE we can get you the Internet connections, but we have a connection to our customers where we let them in every week and we walk them through the testing that's going on in our facility in Greenville, South Carolina which is our technology hub for our power business.
And here is a picture of the HA 880,000 pound I mean just an amazing hunk of metal size and scale. This engine will produce over a million horsepower when you start to look at what it does and that will be released in about 3C it will run 400 degrees hotter than the melting point of the base metal and so you start to look at the technology in here, it is quite sophisticated and we're able to do it at Greenville and the only spot in the world is put this under full load, full speed and typically a fleet of 500 units will run at 60 hertz, plus or minus a couple of tens for their entire life.
We can sweep it from 60 hertz to 50 hertz, from 60 to 70 with new compressor stalls we can do all those kinds of things that a fleet of 1000 units would only see due to abnormalities. We do right at the test end and then have our engineers do a robust design effort on this product. It is something that our customers have been very excited about.
When you look at the commitment, this is a $2 billion investment, all in when you think about our HA program it's roughly $800 million on our engineers designing the products, ensuring we get the design and documenting all that. $600 million on the test facility and the test engines to run the tests and then another $600 million facilitating our factories and our suppliers to be able to build at that scale, because again, this isn’t about building one.
This isn’t about building two, this is the next chapter in heavy duty gas turbines segment which we see as really the leading capacity addition segment and for the next ten years we're going to lead here and this is in our view the most successful product launch and beyond yes that we have going right now in our power business.
So with this, another aspect that we're focused now, when you think about fast works, when you think about lean, things that you've heard here's an example of how we're applying that new product introductions. And by being able to go bolder and bigger and with more volume earlier we're able to drive our product costs down faster.
And so one of the benefits of our F fleet that we solve with the economies of scale having 1500 Fs out running, having 3000 Es you get down to should cost very fast. And then every machine is very productive.
When you introduce a new model there tends to be inefficiencies. So with us using should cost, using fast works, and having the test facility we're able to work with suppliers in a bolder way and get our costs down sooner and meet our target costs on earlier generation units which really drive margin expansion for the launch not only in our services but in the unit itself.
As I said we have plans for the launch of the H, but we have this part of our product strategy what we call multigenerational product plans MGPPs and so it isn’t about bidding a unit in 2015 and winning, we got to win in 2018, we got to win in 2020, in 2022, so we build out this next chapter of 500 Hs which feels like 1000 Fs and to do that we have a forward curve.
And so our engineering team is already working with the research centre and has technologies that can solve the next generation of efficiency problems with 3D physics, Cray computers, things of that nature to try to understand all the aspects of where the losses are. Combustion, as you push firing temperature you get higher knocks, you get a mission to challenge you.
So combustion technology is needed to get ahead of that curve. And the manufacturing, there's parts in this engine that you just can't the traditional way, some combustion parts that would required 3000 breeds that just aren’t inspect able. The only way you can do that is with added manufacturing, so part of our added manufacturing launch down at Greenville a few months ago was all in positioning us to build this scale is unit.
And then things like Ceramic Matrix Composites, you know you look at the latest leap engine GE 90 engines, this is where that technology has been tested and they are scaling up the production. We can feed back on that in our power business to continue to lead in gas turbine sector.
So in summary, before we take some questions, I've got some dialogue, our view, we're bullish on this space, we're excited about fundamentals of gas. When you look, you know there is not just one answer, and our strategy is to have a portfolio of offerings.
So I'm just one business of many and our power and water sector, but for the business that I run I can tell you this is an exciting time to be here. We've got in our view a great product position. We've got a great product launch right underway and we're positioning for not just 2015 and 2016 but all way through 2030, as we see similar to how we played out the Fs, playing out the Hs with the strategy.
So with that, that’s summary of the former presentation here and Julian, we'll just take some questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Q - Julian Mitchell
Thanks, Vic. Firstly, you talked about the product cost out should be very rapid with this turbine versus say the F when you launched it. What sort of time period are we thinking in terms of when the HA frame gets to a mature cost profile?
Vic Abate
Based on the demand we're seeing, as I said we have 37 units now technically selected between '15 and '16, I expect we'll ship a couple dozen of these. So this is something that hear now and the benefit of that is we're able to take those volume commitment to our suppliers.
And sort through suppliers that are with us and suppliers there aren’t and as a result taking a PO for that kind of volume for a new NPI and understanding the future of where this is, we can get there quicker on the supplier side. On the technology side, we have again using fast works centers of excellence and this concept of should cost is really a breakthrough.
And what we've done is we've said what -- the elaborate part in technology which is very artistic in a way because we think of airflow that’s 3D, it's got a lot of cooling holes, cooling hole that aren’t round, how are you going to make those? What should that cost?
And so typically you just use, produce some and produce some and produce some to get there. We're doing a much better analytical job, upfront which should cost tools to understand what's the material? What's the machine time? What's the CapEx of machine? Where in the world is the lowest labor rate? What are the logistics cost and putting that all into our model, so right upfront when we launched this within the first dozen or so units, we're down that curve whereas typically we would have what's the 10th unit cost, what the 50th unit cost, what's the 100th unit cost.
We're saying, I like that 100th unit cost at 10. So that’s the fundamental scale. That’s the way we're thinking about this.
Julian Mitchell
Then if we look at the cost base and the kind of netting off of your investment that -- you have mentioned $2 billion. I guess you are kind of halfway through that or more by now. So those investment costs are coming down. Should that offset the ramp up costs on the initial shipments that you deliver?
Vic Abate
Great question and the way we think about that is you take $2 billion, then you're going to get revenue on new units and then they get what I say is when a unit goes commercial. That’s really its birthday, right.
So if you really think of the business model, similar to the aviation you have the whole power plant construction process, and then it goes commercial, that's its birthday and then it's going to live a life and so through its life we have that modeled all the way.
But when you look at our cost targets, we have the ability to and not just with product cost or with performance to manage their gap and I will just give some numbers. I take a customer with a pro forma, they look at us and we give them output. We give them efficiency. We give them dollar per for kilowatt, those kind of numbers and put it into a pro forma and we give them service cost and they get an IRR and NPV.
If I move the efficiency 10 BTUs, 20 BTUs, or if I move the output 1%, 2%, 3%, that's 10s of million of dollars a value per turban in that transaction. So I take the product strategy on performance plus the diligence on product cost and this focus on accelerating getting to the true cost versus the NPI cost faster, we see this as a margin expansion opportunity and then with the volume and the adoption of the product this is the play.
Our view over the next ten years and a third of our total portfolio will be H. And it will probably end the second half of the decade with close to half, just based on the economics, right. When you think of power, the productivity you get with technology of a gas turbine in these plants is just too high to not be captured.
And we're seeing customers traditionally that have been late adopters, coming to us even in developing countries not just developed countries, asking for information and proposals on this technology.
Julian Mitchell
If you look at the existing kind of F part of the gas turbine market, there is clearly excess capacity among all the manufacturers. The HA frame you have seems to be winning some customers who have been using F you note Mitsubishi and Siemens have H-Class as well.
Is there a risk I guess that you'd get worse price pressure now on the legacy or F-Class turbine as this comes out because the -- you already had excess capacity on them, now you have a more efficient new product as well. Are you seeing customers or bidding activity getting worse on pricing on F?
Vic Abate
It's interesting, I would say, I have to flip it around, I think what you have is you have a pro forma and threshold for customers that's going to invest or a government that's got to meet a certain hurdle rate. Their ability to hit that rate with F-Class and the pressure that it may put on pricing is one aspect.
How much you differentiate yourself with the H is now that value you create, you can split with that customer and so this is a win-win because the pie gets bigger and when you look at the value of a power plant, the way I think about it is there is a net present value.
If I have a power plant of one technology, it might have a $1 billion of value. If you put an H turbine, it now has a $1.2 billion. So now the question is where is that $200 million? How does that get parlayed in the market? And so I don't think you have necessarily just a complete cannibalization if you will. I think there is two different thoughts because some customers there, there is a 1500 Fs out there.
They want to add two more. There is a kind of user scale of parts. There is the service economies of scale. There is a comfort level with sort of the tried and true aspect, but as you look at things as they progress, we clearly see the H just due to the economics being better, being the unit of choice for high efficiency. Now it's big, so it's not going to do everything, right.
So not everywhere can you take 500 megawatts of power of gigawatts blocks of power, but where you can it goes this way.
Julian Mitchell
Siemens recently put -- announced that it's putting all the 600 million R&D in power, talk about increased competition and obviously it's got something to do with your instruction, can you talk a bit about how you differentiate from their H machine?
Vic Abate
Yes, great question. I think again just from my ability to do this job as being candid, having run and led the power gen technology team, We have 4,000 engineers that 24X7 all they do is think about gas turbines, steam turbines and generators and how we're going to differentiate in the market and again in infrastructure you don't sell on style, you sell on economics.
And so the connection between the levers that our customers have that drive their pro forma and how do I get those into the engineering team's hands. So that they can push those levers technically and I think one of the advantages, one of the things I love being part of GE is the aviation team.
The guy who is running my engineering team right now, John Lamas, he came from aviation and he has been in aviation, he has been in oil and gas and so he has all that network to drawn as we push the state-of-the-art going forward.
I think the other aspect is when you think about the F, it was introduced at a very unique time where when you think about the U.S. bubble and 200 gigawatts, the 200 gigawatts of gas turbines that we shipped into the U.S. in three years, that had a dynamic for introduction that was quite unique and most likely not repeatable.
So when you start to think about this dynamic, what we've done is we've said it's not going to be about a product that you just ride the same product for a period of time and they sell out. This is a product that has to maintain its leadership position year in and year out and year in and year out.
So we have not just a launch that we have on this chart, but we're bidding projects in Japan for 2019, 2020, 2021. I've got a 2021 version of that, which isn’t on that page, which I can bid into that market because my engineers are lined up with not only the 2014 model with my 2020 model and I think that view for this industry is new because when you end up putting out products very slow, we didn't have the test facility.
Now with the test facility and the computation horsepower and the sophistication and connecting that with aviation, we're able to not only introduce a new product, but we've already got the plans of where's that's going to go and that gives you a tremendous amount of momentum.
And then once you start to look at the install base and the services and the relationships you have with customers, it's just a terrific business model, but it's not for the faint-heart.
I mean this is like I said, it's a $2 billion investment. It's $300 million on engineers, you know we got to ask ourselves, we're in the heavy duty gas turbine space or not. We're in it. Half of the world's turbines are ours and that's -- we don't see it changing.
Julian Mitchell
Vic, thank you. In the back.
Vic Abate
Yes.
Unidentified Analyst
Enjoyed your presentation, thank you. Question about the synergies between aviation and the power gen division. You just alluded to it, but typically you see technologies develop CMCs added to manufacturing in the world of aviation and then transfer to power gen, which is a bit ironic because the FA certification stringency you think there would be more flexibility freedom to develop those technologies and power gen and have them transfer the other direction.
Could you talk about what the balance is between technologies going back and forth between the business units?
Vic Abate
Got you. It's a great question and your intuition there is spot in. It does go both ways. My aviation friends would maybe want to -- it's a 90-10 them to us, but I do, it goes both ways and the reality is the difference we have is size.
When you think of a jet engine, it just tend to be smaller and when you make a -- our one bucket, one blade on a gas turbine is 4,000 horsepower and so you start to look at what's going on inside these engines and then the scale and the ability to make these parts. The last stage bucket on this 9HA is like this and that's a casting that there is only furnace that can make it versus a small blade.
So I think the manufacturing we share a lot. Relative to the FAA, similar to our approach, there are out ahead. So the FAA is around a finished product and something they're going to put in. They're working what we call NTIs, new technology introduction and that's more on the science. Can you mould a material and you drill a material. Can you code it? And that problem and for us is similar and it comes together with a global research center.
So what I'll do four times a year myself, Steve Bolze, the CEO of Power and Water and my counterparts, we'll get together at the Global Research Center and we'll spend a day there four times a year, just going through technologies what we call NTIs and the aviation team, what they're working, what we're working and the commonality and so many cases, I would have to spend $30 million to $40 million to try an idea.
Aviation would have to spend $30 million to $40 million to try and idea. You put it together, we don't have to spend the money twice, but you're getting down at the science level. As you get more into the application, into the product, that's where it has to go more into the business and for us it tends to be bigger and for aviation, to you point it is the risk trade relative to the FAA and how they do that and their volumes are much different.
So they're looking at a high volume much smaller or lower volumes much bigger, but that's a commonality that is a huge advantage or beyond as I think we go through cycles, I have engineers that go to aviation and then come back and forth and we're constantly cross-pollinating those teams in aeromechanics, material science, coatings, fleet management and things of that nature.
Unidentified Analyst
Vic, I guess some of the target markets you called out were Saudi Arabia and Iraq. On the other side there's obviously countries like Japan and China and Korea. But I guess overall if you could size the share of orders or backlog or pipeline that you see coming from say Middle East, Africa and Russia within your business.
Vic Abate
Right now, again being a long cycle business 2015, pretty firmed up, we do a tremendous amount of activity in the Middle East. We've had a lot of success in Iraq. We're seeing in Africa we've had a lot of success in Iraq, we're seeing in Africa we had Algeria. In Algeria one deal was 8 gigawatts.
I mean the story I would like to tell there is the country of Algeria as about 400 watts a person and when you think about the average per earth, it's about 800 watts a person. So we're going to take Algeria from half of average to the average in three years with one deal and that with six power plants that we are executing now.
So tremendous amount of activity there, but we're seeing relative to North America, if you look at our latest numbers and orders, we're seeing a tremendous amount of order activity and you can't compare -- you can't do an average. Each market is different and so what I would say like different ISOs in the U.S. what goes on in ERCOT, what goes on in PJM, what goes on in California, they have all their dynamics, but on average we're seeing tremendous amount of activity in North America.
Mexico over the next six to eight months, we're seeing probably four, five gigawatts in Mexico. A campaign of about five gigawatts in Japan and relative to our backlog, a lot of business in the Middle East clearly in Africa, but are as probably 40% to 50% of our business I would say that's in backlog is over there and the rest is around the globe.
Julian Mitchell
Maybe one more question.
Unidentified Analyst
Can you give a quick update on the Alstom transaction as you push that toward close? And then separately, they printed a tough first half recently. Is there any wiggle room within the contract whereby you can reduce the purchase price as a result?
Vic Abate
Listen, just on Alstom in general, I am an operating business guy, so I am running a business and as of today we compete. So for earning a living in that fashion, but I'll speak more strategically about the transaction. When I think about us and just look at the history of GE, half of the gas turbines are GE.
So we were navigating towards more and more becoming a gas turbine service company, which is great as you play out the F bubble, but you think about the next chapter and this next build-out of H's, you need to be a power plant system design company that has the best power generating technology and the best power generating equipment.
So you take Alstom who is very good in HRSGs, very good in balance of plant, very good at actually building plants, they understand all the things around the turbine very well. And if you take our view of where we are with our gas turbine technology, you put it together you have the world's best power plant.
And I'll try do that, which is the future just look at what you have, our install base is -- you can go year with down orders on new units, the lights are still on, which means the blood is still flowing through the system and the service for that has to happen and so that's the robustness of this PGP, PGS model in the power and water portfolio and they increase our install base by a third.
So that jump in itself is extremely valuable and then the synergies you get with the network of service providers we have, the network of service providers they have and then you look at the R&D. If you're going to have the world’s best largest and most efficient products, by definition there is only one.
So how much will we spend getting here? How much will they spend getting there? You put it together, think of the synergies you have on just R&D expense needed to lead. So we're bullish on what we can do with it. I think relative to the first recent financial performance, it doesn’t bother me.
To be honest, this is a generational play and 90 days to 90 days, we could have any discussion we want, but our view of the deal was still very excited and I had been in a few sessions with the team over there. What I can tell you is they're excited to be the partnering here with GE and you can see that we're all trying to solve the same problem.
So this thing is going to hit the ground pretty aggressively, pretty quick and I think better days are ahead.
Julian Mitchell
Thank you.
Vic Abate
Okay. Great. Thanks.
Copyright policy: All transcripts on this site are the copyright of Seeking Alpha. However, we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists, and are excited to contribute to the democratization of financial information on the Internet. (Until now investors have had to pay thousands of dollars in subscription fees for transcripts.) So our reproduction policy is as follows: You may quote up to 400 words of any transcript on the condition that you attribute the transcript to Seeking Alpha and either link to the original transcript or to www.SeekingAlpha.com. All other use is prohibited.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL, CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION, AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS. IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.