General Electric Company (NYSE:GE)
Goldman Sachs Industrials Conference
November 12, 2014, 10:40 AM ET
Executives
John Rice - Vice Chairman and President and Chief Executive Officer, GE Global Growth & Operations
Analysts
Unidentified Analyst
Good morning, everyone. We're about to start with GE. It's my pleasure to introduce John Rice. John has had an extensive career at GE, spanning over 35-years. Today, John is the Vice Chairman of GE and also President and CEO of GE's Global Growth and Operations group. John's got a presentation that he's going to walk through, and then we'll open it up to Q&A. Thanks John.
John Rice
Thanks Joe. So let me go ahead and jump right into it. You've probably been hearing some of this, this morning. I don't think this message is going to be entirely different. If you look at the world a lot going on, macro themes though are pretty consistent. The global currency is really jobs, not the U.S. dollar. Everywhere we go people have figured out the importance of, if you're going to have sustainable inclusive growth, you better be creating jobs and companies like ours are a part of that mix.
Populist governments concerned about an aging population, environmental concerns, anti-corruption now in more and more places. Regulatory activism continues, urbanization, energy security, all themes that are consistent to you and have been consistent to us for a while. What means is, continued demand for infrastructure.
I mean at the end of the day, when you add all this up, it's bumpy, but it still creates a huge demand for infrastructure and we expect that demand to continue unabated, there is still 1.5 billion people in the world that lack basic forms of electricity, healthcare, clean water. A lot of pressure on governments to fix those problems, and so regardless of how the government transitions take place, the new government comes in with some of the same priorities that the old government had when it comes to infrastructure.
But in this world, post financial crisis, there is much more of a focus on cost per unit, whether that's lowering cost per barrel of oil, per MMBtu of natural gas, per ton of iron ore extracted, and that's where a company like ours, we think with the portfolio we've created, has some natural advantages. Access by all the growing middle-class, the people who want to get better, the governments who would want to provide a better lifestyle for them means that your technologies have to be lower cost, more portable, more accessible.
The premium that's placed on capacity and capability building, it's not just a job anymore. It's a job that maybe creates an ecosystem for small and medium-sized enterprises. Innovation ecosystem, it's not just having a researcher, its how has that researcher plugged into a global innovation framework. And the smart governments and the smart countries really are focused on that.
And of course financial solutions, post the global financial crisis. The European banks haven't been doing a lot of infrastructure financing, and so that the funding sources are coming from other places. So the moral of the story is, continued huge demand for infrastructure. We have a bigger pipeline. We have to be better, faster and more focused to win.
And the thing that's really exciting, when you look at it from a GE perspective, as we've spent the last 10 or 15 years really concentrating our portfolio in basic infrastructure businesses. So getting out of businesses that were not directly related to infrastructure, and moving that capital into businesses that are directly related to infrastructure. So we think that we're really well-positioned for a long-term run, because it's going to take a long time for people everywhere to get what they need.
Global economic backdrop, exchange rates moving around, the price of oil moving, that doesn't really change fundamentally what we talked about on the first slide. At the end of the day, there is even more opportunity for us to become a more valuable partners and supplier by reducing the cost of a barrel of oil with oil at $75 or $80.
More of a premium on that capability, then there might have been when oil was at $110 or $120 a barrel. So people are looking for solutions and they want those solutions, they want to transfer function for those solutions to be clear and obvious, and go right to their balance sheet or operating statement.
So for us, the imperatives that drive global growth, which is a lot of what I'm going to talk about today is clear. We have demonstrated ability over the last few years to grow significantly. Of the $250 billion backlog at the end of the third quarter, some 70% of that is coming from these growth markets and the markets outside the United States. So we are positioning ourselves, where we need to be.
We're in a 170 countries. We sold in a 170 countries in 2013, and we add a few more to the list every year. And I'll talk about how we do that and what makes us decide which countries where, and what we get out of that, localizing in an intelligent way.
Every airline that buys a jet engine from us would like to have a service shop. We can't put service shops in every location. So we have to be thoughtful about how we choose what we do where, but we have to be viewed as an investor. I mean we are important to the global job creation. We are important to creating jobs here in United State and Western Europe, and we're important to the job creation processes around the world.
I'll just flip through some of the key geographies, and then I'm going to spend a little time talking about how it works from a GE perspective. So China, everybody knows China is not growing this year, the way it was growing maybe on average over the last four or five years, we don't think that's necessarily a bad thing. Some of that is driven by the anti-corruption drive, as we all know the need for reform of the state-owned enterprises.
So China, the world's second largest economy growing at 7% plus or minus. We don't think it's necessarily a bad thing. Some of that correction needs to take place, and we think that the work that they are doing to clean up some of the corruption, which is going deeper than a lot of people thought it might, when this was launched with the new administration, we think is a net positive for companies like our.
So if you do business the right way, if you have open and transparent business practices, the stuff that's going on in China, we think it will help and by the way it's not just China. There are anti-corruption movements in India, in Indonesia, Brazil is working their way through some issues in the oil and gas sector. We think all of that helps a company like ours.
In the Middle-East, we've seen great growth, and it's been in the middle of a lot of turbulence. So if you just take Egypt for example, there have been in the last four years two governments, a new constitution, and on average if you take the last three years and compare it to the three years that preceded the departure of Mubarak, our business is up 20%, which really enforces the point I was talking about before, that no matter who is in power, the first thing they do is try to figure out where the electricity is going to come from, how do they provide basic needs, healthcare, water the basic infrastructure stuff.
So if you're viewed as a company that can help and a partner, and you're an investor and a long-term participant in that market, as we've been, there is no reason to think that your business outlook should change in a significant way. And if you look at the challenges that are faced by some countries in the Middle-East and North African, you look at our order flow, there hasn't been a significant change.
Latin America, we talked a little bit about the oil and gas sector. It's an important place to be local. It's a huge market with lots of natural resources. So although their growth prospects have diminished a little bit in the last few years, we still think that the long-term prospect for Brazil is bright and we think the long-term prospect for Latin America as a growth region for us is bright.
And Sub-Saharan Africa, I'm going to talk in a minute about the importance of having people in the right places around the world. But if you look at the growth that we've seen in Sub-Saharan Africa and this is '10 through '13. But you go back 10 years in Sub-Saharan Africa, across our company we have about 5,000 people in what we call leadership or senior leadership positions out of 300,000. We had one from this group in Africa 10 years ago, today we have 62.
So part of what fuels your ability to grow like this in a responsible way is to have senior leaders on the ground, who can help you make the decisions you need, because I'll have to explain to this group, Africa is a not one place, right. It's over 50 different countries. There is 1,000 languages spoken on the continent.
To get it right in each one of those countries, you have to have not just people on the ground, but the right people on the ground, the right combination of GE leaders with GE values and GE ability to influence the system and local talent and capability of the people who know the local market. And Africa is one of the places, where we have been investing and one of the places where we have seen good results.
So how does it work? We talk about balancing global and local, leveraging our global capabilities and strengths across GE technology, leadership development. But being local, everywhere we need to be local and thinking about that in the context of 170 countries. There is really four things you got to get right in this equation, we think, to be a great global company in the 21st century.
The first is people. You have to have local leadership teams, when and where you need them. The days of being able to fly and book an order for a gas turbine or a jet engine, leave, export the product in, get paid, export the profits out to shareholders in some other place, those days are over. That worked in the 70s and 80s. It's not going to work in the 21st century.
And you got to have local teams with credibility, who can help you make local decisions. You have to have a presence, beyond the local leadership team. You have to be in new markets. We opened up an office earlier this year in Papua New Guinea. I didn't think when I started my career in GE, in 1978 that I would be in Papua New Guinea in 2014, opening up an office, but we have several hundred million dollars worth of business opportunities there. And if you don't have a local presence and you don't have service capability, you're not going to be able to compete with those opportunities.
Now, it's going to be a while before Papua New Guinea is on your radar screen as something that's material to our quarterly or annual results, but those things all add up, and I'll show you a chart that illustrates that in a minute, and what we call multimodal leverage, how do we fit more from different GE businesses under one roof, and you'll see some examples of some opportunity, some areas where we think we've done a great job and we've got more opportunities.
Partnerships, so increasingly you have to have partnerships, you have to be local. You have to have a local partner in order to be successful in these markets. And then speed and process. You hear us talk a lot about simplification, that's part of this. How do you make decisions better and faster, and in a timeframe that is set, where deadlines are set by the marketplace not by what people in headquarters wanted to.
So this is about ensuring that you have the people on the ground, we understand what the customers need, we understand what the competitors are doing, we understand the overall market circumstance and that informs our speed and cycle time. So simplification broadly defined covers that too. It's weeding out all the stuff that doesn't help, that doesn't matter, that doesn't help you make different decisions, and allows you to make the local decisions when and where they need to be made, make some of the headquarters decisions that's need to be made, but always in a timeframe that's established by the market that you're trying to win in.
So I've got a few slides that will illustrate specifics around each of these areas, but I'm convinced that 85 years from now when they write the stories about the best global companies in the 21st century, they're going to be writing the stories about the companies that got this right. And some it's about picking the right products and being in the right markets and some of it's about the wiring and plumbing, how do you actually run the enterprise, and it's different.
I started in 1978. All the senior people were located in headquarters locations primarily in the United States. We were in a few dozen countries, not a 170. Our total revenue outside the U.S. was about $9 billion, and we were going to do that soon in China alone. It's just a different way; you can't run the business the same way in the 21st century that you ran it in the 20th century.
Couple of big themes. First to show you how we think about the market differently. I don't need to tell this group that the emphasis on gas, including the emphasis on shale, but the emphasis on gas has really picked up over the last few years. If you look at, these would be installed gigawatts between now and 2020 about 450 added to the 935, so you've got an increase of almost 50% in installed gas power generation outside the U.S. between now and 2020. In addition, if you can figure out how to get gas to the places where they need the power, but they don't have gas, you have another 50 gigawatts of capacity opportunity between now and 2020.
So what does that mean for company like ours? It means we have to think about it from a project development perspective, because that additional 50 gigawatts doesn't happen naturally. It's not going to happen by accident. It means that we have to go in, work with other companies, develop the consortium, maybe put a little project development funding into it to get it started, but if we do that -- and we've highlighted this project in Ghana where the government said they want to add 1,000 megawatts and there's a $500 million opportunity for us just from that one project over the next 12 to 18 months, so big opportunity there.
Wind is a business that, you know we bought that business little over 10 years ago, and it was at the time active in a handful of countries. A total of eight, but really all the action was in the U.S. and a few countries in Western Europe. Next year, we'll sell wind turbines in 35 or more countries. About 40% of the 2015 volume will come from the Middle East, North Africa and Turkey and Asia markets that weren't even thought about in this wind business. So it's become very global. It requires different products. It requires different technology, but when you do that well, you end up with a very successful global business that can contribute a lot to our performance.
Presence in new markets. Just taking 10 counties that we were relatively unpenetrated in, in 2010, and seeing what happened between 2010 and 2013, so 10x increase, in the 10x on the left and the 10x on the right are our next tranche, and then there will be 10x more after that, because if you're on the ground and you're bringing the right products and capability, you're going to have growth opportunities. You got to set some priorities. You can't be everywhere and you can't try to do everything in every country.
We talked about presence. On the left, Pune, India, we're going to open this facility formally next week. It's already up and operating. Phase 1 is basically sold out. We're working on Phase 2; $130 million investment and annual savings of about a $100 million. We brought four businesses together under one roof. So none of these businesses by themselves had the scale to justify a plant in Pune, but bringing four together and with GE, we basically provide the startup or the seed funding.
So we paid to get the plant started. And then next year it becomes, if all of the operating expense flows into the businesses, then they own it from that perspective. But the startup and the seed capital comes from us, because we see the need for the roof and the businesses all sign up for their portion of the real estate.
Same thing in Haiphong, Vietnam. This was actually started by the energy business a few years ago, but they built a facility that was big enough to have space for oil and gas, and maybe some day some healthcare equipment. So we can now locale in these countries in a way that's much more shareholder-friendly and delivers a good return and should contribute over time to improved margins for the company.
Partnerships, whether it's access, expertise, financing, you know about the AVIC partnership, AVIAGE for the avionics package on the C919. We have avionics. We have the engine, that's going to be a very successful plane for us when it flies.
Localizing, I'm going to talk a little bit more in a minute about the Algerian mega-deal, and what we're doing to win there. And financing, so the Kipeto Wind deal, where we put a little project development money in, $2 million, got $4 million back and ended up with the $120 million worth of wind turbines in a project outside of Nairobi that have we not had the African leadership team in place, making the case for why we should do this. 10-years ago, we never would have even thought about this. This wouldn't have been on anybody's radar screen two or three years after we acquired the wind business. So it's just another example of the kind of things you can do to build out this global framework.
Speed and process. So this is important, because when you talk about simplification, at one level it means expanded margins, which is what you like and what we like. At another level, it also allows us to reinvest in the business and allocate or reallocate resources into some of these growth products and growth markets. It also lets us think differently about how the business works.
So as part of simplification, we've created these global centers of excellence in finance, in HR, in legal, and a lot of the work that takes place behind the scenes, in kind of the engine room of the company, now is going to be done in these centers of excellence. They're going to be more efficient. They're going to cost less. They're going to be better at what they do and they're going to provide better careers paths.
And a lot of companies that you follow have done some of this. There is probably not many of the scale and diversity that we are, that are doing it across the board. So this is part of our transformation. When we talk about simplification, we're also talking about the basic processes by which we allocate resources, make decisions, and make sure that we have a truly global framework.
And then programs; the other thing we think about is how to fund these startup activities in different countries, how do we get new products launched, which maybe on the fringe of what the headquarters team are thinking about, but we know are required for penetration and market growth and important to the Philippines or important to Thailand or important Peru.
Our job is to provide the seed or the catalyst funding. So these are the kind of ways, that the organization I lead were responsible for adding value. And nothing that we do is done without collaboration with the businesses and a lot of times what we start from an investment perspective to businesses takeover.
Examples of how it works, in the Chengdu customer's innovation center, where we bring customers into this facility. We've got about 200 people here. It's one of the big cities in the middle of China. And it's an important place for our healthcare business. On the right hand side, you can see how the products get created. So Vscan is portable ultrasound machine and it's important, because it gives us the ability to go into markets, developing markets, with a product that matters.
In this case, we designed a specific model for Indonesia. And it really illustrates how global innovation takes place today across the world, around the world. Basically nothing we produce gets designed or developed in just one country. There are engineers in multiple countries that contribute to the creation of a product like the Vscan, which is manufactured in China, but a lot of the software system work was done in India, a lot of the product software came from the United States and Norway and the local protocols.
This was designed with the Indonesian midwife in mind. The local protocols were done in Indonesia, and the whole product comes together and is manufactured in China. That's kind of the way the world for us now. It's not in China for China anymore. It's in China for China and the rest of the world in some cases. This is a product that will scale and fit with all of our global and developing markets. So it gives us a different way to think about product development and how we hit the mark in a place like Indonesia or the Philippines or India or Brazil or China.
So when you think about all the stuff I talked about, people presence, partnerships, speed and process, I thought it would be helpful to talk about it in the context of a recent win. So last year in the fourth quarter, we booked a $2 billion turbine order in Algeria. Now, Algeria was one of those places that is really important to us, but we didn't have too many senior leaders in the 90s that went to Algeria.
In 2013, we had officers, Vice Chairman and Chairman who visited more than 10 times, okay. This is a place that matters to us. We have people on the ground long before this bid was even thought about. We had a senior leader in Algeria, who has experienced from Alstom and GE. We've got a senior lawyer in Algeria. The terms and conditions for this deal didn't get negotiated at headquarters. They got negotiated on the ground in Algeria with support from the headquarters legal team.
We've got a General Manager of our Power Gen Services businesses, that's a graduate of the Corporate Audit Staff, so we have people on the ground in Algeria, had long before this bid was proposed, who have the ability, the influence, the technical skills, and frankly the confidence of the senior leadership teams to make some of the local calls necessary to win this deal.
We have presence in Algeria. And we withstood the test of time. It's been a tough place at times. We haven't left, we've stuck with it. They know we're a long-term friend. We've got 600 employees, 300 engineers. We've got locations. We service what we sell. We've got great partnerships. We have a joint venture within the oil and gas space that's been in existence since 1993. We've got a water JV. We're partnering with the Ministry of Health. We're there, right. We're viewed as somebody that's contributing to the local economy.
And then process. How do you bring this, so you're bidding the deal, you've got the right people on the ground. You've got the right relationships at the government level. You've got credibility. Now, how do you make the deal come together in the timeframe, which includes by the way localizing manufacturing, not an easy thing to do, in a timeframe that matters, that meets the requirements of the government.
When you get all this working the right way, you win these deals. And that's what global business is today. It's not about doing everything locally, unilaterally, and it's not about doing everything from the headquarters, it's taking the best of both worlds and bringing it together with competitive edge to win.
So in summery, when we do this right, we do win. And that's the simple fact. We've taken a lot of and effort over the last number of years to concentrate our portfolio to get out of the businesses that aren't directly related to infrastructure, and put capital into businesses that are, so we have more focus and more clarity than ever in my career of 36 years.
We have a global footprint today. We're not done with that global footprint, but we have a much more significant global footprint today than we had five years ago. And we'll have a more significant global footprint five years from now than we have today. And when you bring it all together, it allows you to compete in a world that has some geopolitical challenges, but still at the fundamental core, needs infrastructure and needs the kind of stuff that we do.
So with that, Joe, I'm going to turn it over to you and take your questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Unidentified Analyst
Thank you, John. It was nice and thorough. Before I open it up to the audience for questions, just one question from me. You talked a lot about a lot of great opportunities. I am very curious to hear your thoughts on where GE is in terms of their simplification efforts? And then secondly, if you think about the opportunities, both from a regional perspective and from a product perspective, because a lot of what you highlighted today, it was really in the power and water space. I'm curious to hear where you think the biggest opportunities are for GE over the next couple of years.
John Rice
Look, I think in some respects we're still in the early innings in simplification. I mean, we're not necessarily in what's showing up in the margin line, because I think we've seen some pretty good numbers. I think we're going to continue to see improvements there. But what I love about simplification is the way it's changing the way we think about how we run the company.
And that's going to manifest itself in different ways. It's going to manifest itself in the way we pick products and focus on products that have truly global opportunities for us. It's going to manifest itself in terms of the way we think about market size and how we allocate resources beyond product management, so where we put people. One of my jobs is to make sure we have the market sized properly, so that our businesses, which are not small, can reallocate resources in many cases to the areas of greatest need. So I'd see that with a long tail in this company.
I think we're completely rethinking how we run the company and we can do it in a way, which is shareholder-friendly and gives us a better allocation of resources. From a product perspective, every one of our products plays globally. So we can't have more success than we've had with the leap engines in aviation, the work that we've done in locomotives.
I think you're going to see great things with the H-turbine that's being launched. I think that gives us a real framework. I think in distributed power and healthcare, we have the opportunity to continue invest in products and capability that help us with this access point that I made before. So I'm very excited about that. And I think that in a world that needs infrastructure, we've got the right company at the right time.
Unidentified Analyst
Any questions from the audience. Left-hand side?
Unidentified Analyst
Maybe I was wondering why your operating margins haven't expanded at the same level that you have reduced your SG&A cost. What's happened on the gross margin side?
John Rice
Well, I think the SG&A stuff has delivered exactly what we said it would deliver. In some cases, you have mix impacts in different businesses, so the mix of what we're selling is different. So there is a different answer in each one of our businesses. But we are very focused on the margin line in our company. And we think that in addition to the work that we're doing on SG&A, we've got an opportunity to do more work on the contribution margin line level.
So our variable cost, which as you all would know was significant in our company. There are opportunities for us to be more productive and do things differently. So we feel good about our opportunity to continue to expand margins over the near-term and we'll do it with continued work on SG&A, and work on the variable side and we think that that will flow through.
Unidentified Analyst
Just a follow-up here, so on the contribution side or the variable side, is that a new program? Is that something you're willing to I guess talk about as a new driver in your December outlook meeting?
John Rice
I think you'll hear more about it at the end of the year and into next year. We have always been focused at one level on productivity and deflation. We've talked to you guys about that before. But we have some different ways to think about it, and some different ways to go after it. We think that advanced manufacturing gives us a new set of tools to work with. We're understanding exactly what the size of the opportunity is there. So, yes, you'll I think hear more about it from us.
Unidentified Analyst
One more question from the audience, right here.
Unidentified Analyst
Two quick ones. Any potential impact if the Export-Import Bank goes away, percent of international sales that could be impacted. And then separately, the complexity and additional integration risk for the Alstom acquisition structured as a JV versus outright acquisition.
John Rice
So on the Export-Import, we are obviously advocating and lobbying for its reauthorization and demonstrating to anybody that will listen why this is important, as we competing globally. Because I don't have to explain it to you, there are a lot of other countries that have export credit agencies and support their domestic enterprises.
And we think Ex-Im should do that. If Ex-Im isn't reauthorized, we'll work hard as we are doing now to find low cost sources of fundings other ways. So we don't think it will have a significant impact on our ability to do things globally, but we think the United States works a lot better if Ex-Im is part of the mix.
In terms of Alstom, we feel very good about what we've seen so far. We have the A-team assembled for integration, if anything we see a lot more positive and negative with what we've seen so far. And we think that the JV structure is very manageable. There are puts associated with those JVs. At some point, in the not too distant future, we don't think that that's going to be a complication for us.
Unidentified Analyst
John thanks so much for joining us today.
John Rice
Thanks.
Copyright policy: All transcripts on this site are the copyright of Seeking Alpha. However, we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists, and are excited to contribute to the democratization of financial information on the Internet. (Until now investors have had to pay thousands of dollars in subscription fees for transcripts.) So our reproduction policy is as follows: You may quote up to 400 words of any transcript on the condition that you attribute the transcript to Seeking Alpha and either link to the original transcript or to www.SeekingAlpha.com. All other use is prohibited.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL, CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION, AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS. IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.