Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (NYSE:GS)
Bank of America Merrill Lynch Banking & Financial Services Conference
November 12, 2014 08:50 AM ET
Executives
Harvey Schwartz - EVP and CFO
Dane Holmes - IR
Analysts
Mike Carrier - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Mike Carrier - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Good morning. I'm Mike Carrier and I am the broker and management and exchange analyst here at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Just want to remind the audience that we’ll be posting some polling questions upon the screen and you can answer these with the handheld devices and we’ll follow up with the answers.
The first one before we get started with the next presentation is asking about the outlook for returns for the broker dealers on a cross cycle and if we get that polling question up. So what do you expect for cross cycle returns going forward? The choices are 8% to 10%, 10% to 12%, 12% to 14%, or 14% or higher. So if you can use your devices put your opinion in.
So the results, so we have 57% with a view think, that the returns cross cycle are going to be 10% to 12% and then pretty a tie between the second and third place which is 8% to 10% and 12% to 14%. There is a few of you, 4% that expect 14% or higher returns. All right. Well, thanks a lot. Now we’ll get started with the next presentation. It’s my pleasure to introduce our next company Goldman Sachs. And presenting today is Goldman’s Chief Financial Officer, Harvey Schwartz, along with Dane Holmes in IR.
Harvey has been in his current role since 2013 and prior to that he was the Global Co-Head of the Securities Division. In addition, he sits on in the firm wide risk, regulatory reform and capital committees among others, which I imagine keeps him pretty busy in the current backdrop. Goldman has been able to navigate the revenue and regulatory backdrop by managing its cost structure and capital base relatively well and is still generating a double digit return on capital for shareholders. Given few more industry regulations on the horizon yet areas of improving revenue growth, it will be interesting to get Harvey’s take on the outlook.
Thanks Harvey for being here today. And I’ll turn it over to you. Then we’ll do some Q&A.
Harvey Schwartz
Thanks Mike. Good morning everyone. It’s great to be here. So given the significant amount of new regulations being placed upon the industry, there have naturally been questions about capital requirements and the prospect for returns. Quite frankly, I don’t think we planned the question. But it’s a perfect question in terms of the poll as it relates to what we want to talk about.
Now with respect to returns it’s also led some to focus on return targets. And I understand the appeal of a simple firm wide target. Having one isn’t, nor has it ever been the driver of our returns. Our operating principles and philosophy have been essentially to generating superior returns. Underpinning our principles and philosophy is a belief that we should manage our resources dynamically, and therefore, circumstances and return profiles should naturally fluctuate across the cycle. Most importantly, it’s not a target per se that drives our firm wide returns but rather our capital allocation process.
Now as we've discussed in the past, we believe capital and the regulatory requirements surrounding it represent a secular change for the industry. It goes without saying, prudent capital allocation remains critical to a financial institution’s success. Today however, managing capital is more complicated due to the multiple capital constraints. You need to manage capital with consideration for both risk sensitive calculations, like the advanced approach in Basel III, as well as non-risk sensitive calculations like the supplementary leverage ratio. Given the increased complexity, we thought it’d be helpful to dig into our philosophy and process around capital management and how that process actually works.
Okay, so let’s get started. Having a rock solid financial foundation is the starting point for everything we think about when it comes to capital. Strong based risk capitalization not only allows our financial institution to be front footed in capturing opportunities, but also provides protection in more difficult operating environments.
Although the circumstances are definitely more complex in the new regulatory world, our approach to capital management at its core is unchanged. We continue to believe that our goal isn’t to size our business to our capital base, but rather to size our capital base to the opportunities available. As a result, we grow our capital base as client activity increases. Conversely we wouldn’t hesitate to shrink if our clients became less active or expressed a reduce need for capital.
A second element of our capital management is need to be disciplined about returning excess capital to shareholders. If risk adjusted returns help meet appropriate risk return hurdles, then we will either; A, return capital to shareholders; or B, hold that capital reserve for better opportunity down the road.
In our view this approach results in better through the cycle returns, largely because it drives you to focus on both better risk management decisions and at the same time operational efficiency. For risk management, stretching to deploy excess capital can often lead to bad outcomes. And for operating efficiency the approach, it naturally forces a sharper focus on the infrastructure cost embedded in your various businesses. Third, we continue to view buybacks as the preferred method for capital return, but we have increased our dividend over time. Share repurchases still represent the lion's share of our capital return.
Since 2009, we have returned approximately $30 billion to shareholders, with share repurchases representing roughly 85%. We [indiscernible] buybacks for several reasons. Unlike dividends shareholders won’t view them as permanent. So we can address them depending on the environments and obviously share repurchases also have reduced share count and are tax efficient for our shareholders.
Now we offer a diverse set of services to our clients. We want to be able to provide them a comprehensive solution. We also want to build lasting relationships that remain valuable to them as their focus and their needs evolve. As a result, our mix of revenues reflects their priorities. This simple illustrative graphic ranks our businesses by capital intensity depending on whether it's a risk based metric like Basel III or anonymous based space metric like the supplementary leverage ratio.
As you can see, capital requirements can change significantly, depending on which metric you apply. For example, equity investing, if you look at the slide highlighted in light blue faces higher capital requirements under a risk based approach versus a non-risk based approach. Conversely Security Services, highlighted in dark blue faces higher capital requirements under a non-risk based approach like the SLR, and businesses like investment banking and investment management are lower capital intensity under both of these approaches. We enter all of our risk decisions with a desire to meet our clients’ needs, but simultaneously make sure that the potential risk outcomes are constrained within acceptable levels and the returns are appropriate.
Let me outline for you the approval process for our capital commitment. As you know, our clients look for capital commitments, principally within our institutional client services and our investing and lending businesses. However, capital requirements vary within each of these businesses. A good way to think about these activities is the bank one set of transaction does higher velocity or flow in nature and another set of longer term one-off commitments, they use our balance sheet.
For example, high velocity activities include providing liquidity in products like cash equities or U.S. treasuries. Loan related activities like hedging transactions for a corporate client or investing in a privately held enterprise, those are more one-off in nature. Not surprisingly there are different processes depending on whether the risk is more flow like and high velocity or one-off in nature.
If we focus on our first category, the more flow like, these transactions are governed by market and credit limits that are allocated to our businesses. These include more than a 170 VaR related limits as well as thousands of credit and stress test limits. Other metrics are also monitored including, but not limited to our rigorous tracking of our aged inventory, portfolio concentrations and correlations.
Every single day the balance sheet is mark-to-market, simulations are run using updated risk factors and resulting exposures are compared against our limits. Our risk limits are purposely set at levels which are well enough to be regularly approached. This promotes healthy ongoing communication of our actual and perspective risk exposures. All limits are set by our risk rules in conjunction with the Firmwide Risk Committee and these amendments are regularly reviewed and adjusted as we deem appropriate.
Other individual transactions, including those which involve capital commitments are reviewed in a more intensive basis, including through various committees formed specifically for that purpose. For example, our Firmwide Investment Policy Committee evaluates longer term investments, while our capital committee provides oversight for lending related commitments. Whether a transaction is flow oriented or one-off in nature, importantly we fully cost it out. Doing this not only ensures that we understand the true risk return implications of each transaction, but also provides a complete view of how the business is performing. Fully crossing out our transactions and businesses requires allocating the cost of liquidity, hedging, financing and CVA FVAs applicable. These cost allocations also give us better insight into analyzing marginal balance sheet deployment.
So what ultimately drives the allocation decisions? It’s all about balancing risk and return. Any capital allocation decision starts with our own internal assessment of risk before we look to regulatory capital implications. As I just mentioned, we then account for all costs from funding to technology and ensure that businesses are absorbing the appropriate costs. After calculating the net earnings, we then have to determine the equity capital associated with any given activity.
Now, for those of us who do this for a living, this is actually where it gets really exciting. So given regulators have defined capital in multiple ways, we need to create an equity calculation that incorporates all of the relevant capital requirements. It’s a concept we refer to as, attributed equity.
Attributed equity represents a weighted capital charge and served as the foundation for a multi-facet model that generates returns on attributed equity, or as we refer to inside the firm, ROAE. Our attributed equity framework is intended to provide the firm with a realistic view of returns. It is extremely important in a world where one transaction might be constrained by risk based capital, and another might be leverage constrained for example. ROAE is an important construct. It’s one among many factors we consider to analyze performance and determine how we should dynamically manage our businesses.
Now let’s talk to these concepts in a bit more detail. This slide is a graphical illustration of our approach. You can see a more detailed representation of the return on attributed equity formula at the top of the slide. It incorporates all the various expenses as well as the regulatory ratio weightings. Using ROAE as the basis for measurements, we can now construct a capital curve. This curve establishes a minimum guideline for our return on allocated equity over time.
Now maybe one of the easiest ways to describe how we use the ROAE framework is to consider it within the context of an individual transaction. Let’s get with two types, one that a shorter duration and higher velocity would require a lower threshold. For example, a mortgage portfolio we purchase from a client that we plan to have on our balance sheet for several months. A second type of transaction could occupy the balance sheet for multiple years. This type of transaction require significantly higher returns with a minimum ROAE expectation in the mid-teens to a level well above that. For example a private equity investment that we would expect to maintain for a longer period of time will at the high or highest end of that range.
Now those obviously meet the minimum return hurdle. This condition alone is certainly not sufficient as transactions also need to be reviewed on the basis of their individual characteristics. However, there may be transitions that will fall below these minimums. Falling below the line will drive further analysis and discussion. It just maybe the case that there are justifications for committing capital below the guideline but certainly significant review is required.
Ultimately we believe looking at capital allocation in a static fashion or against a single metric isn’t effective. In the current regulatory world, you need to think about it across a capital curve that incorporates multiple constraints. As a result, the weights we use allocate capital and this curve itself will be dynamic and adjust accordingly over time.
We also knew that it was critical to give our people the tools they need to make informed decisions. And we’ll message significantly in creating the infrastructure and technology to manage capital across all the various considerations. As I talked about nearly two years ago, we developed a capital allocation tool that we continue to expand and refine. The swap [ph] captures earnings with that information for our businesses and calculates the various capital requirements that we're subject to. It provides the ability to have a top down perspective for senior management and a bottom up assessment for our business heads, write down to the CUSIP [ph] level.
The total heads [ph] and form our transactional business and firmwide capital allocation processes. Since we initially discussed our capital allocation tool, we’ve now deployed it to all of our businesses within institutional client services as well as on investing and lending activities.
We made a number of strategic capital decisions over the past two years that help reduce risk and improve our positioning across various metrics. In response to Basel III capital rules, we sold down our remaining ICBC stake and sold majority stakes in our two insurance businesses in 2013.
Additionally, as CCAR and the SLR made balance sheets more expensive, we undertook a $56 billion asset reduction in the second quarter of 2014. Collectively these decisions, along with other capital initiatives have led to significant improvements across many of our ratios.
In the past year, our Tier 1 leverage ratio, which is incorporated into CCAR is up over a 100 basis points and the SLR is up 70 basis points in the past two quarters alone. Our Basel III advance ratio is up approximately 250 basis points since the beginning of 2012. While almost binding constraint could change overtime, we believe that the CCAR process is the most binding constraint for the near-term.
To wrap up, we have a broad and diverse set of businesses reflecting the global nature and varied needs of our clients. Our clients’ needs have always been dynamic, but today we also operate under a multifaceted capital regime. This certainly presents challenges but it also creates opportunities. If we are able to effectively and efficiently allocate capital in ways that our clients must have the value, particularly in areas where capital within the industry is more constrained, we are confident we will be able to continue to generate industry leading returns.
Thank you for your time and attention and now I'm happy to answer any questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Mike Carrier - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Thanks Harvey. There is some interesting new ways of looking at new capital allocations. Before we get into Q&A just wanted to throw out one more, the polling questions. And then we’ll get into basic Q&A.
Harvey Schwartz
I told Mike I was nervous if he was going to ask a question about how the new CFO was doing for the [indiscernible]. I appreciate your gratitude.
Mike Carrier - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
So what would get you more interested in investing in Goldman stock? So one, regulatory clarity; two, larger capital return, three, strong revenues; four expense reductions; five, business divestments. So we get on the clock few seconds, the results. So 45% of you are looking for stronger revenues and then next followed by 26% of you with regulatory clarity. At the low end would be further expense reductions at 2%. All right, that’s helpful.
So Harvey, you went through a lot of information in terms of how you guys think about capital allocations. It's interesting you kind of combine a lot of the regulatory complexities out there, but I guess practically how does it affect day-to-day business or how do we see that impacting returns going forward? And quite more importantly, as what weren’t you doing before. So when you're focused on it in more granularity that can improve?
Harvey Schwartz
So it's a great question and maybe the most important question in terms of -- an answer for that is sort of kind of how do we use this in real life. And so we started thinking about the concept of how to think about capital in the new regulatory world way back in 2009. And this concept of how do you manage capital when you have competing metrics.
So as I said, some things about our principals haven’t changed at all, managing risk first and making sure that we have all of that covered. But the presence of multiple constrains creates massive challenges on how you should be deploying capital in the right places. And so maybe to go -- if we go back to the capital curve slide for a second?
So let me just maybe spend a few more minutes on kind of the [indiscernible] part of those. So as I said, the top part of this slide, basically there's ratings to determine how should we actually think about regulatory capital. So, we look at all the constraints and we have [indiscernible] we look the primary ones and basically said the firm has a certain amount of regulatory capital that it has access to use, not total capital which I’ll come back to in a second. And then the question is, how should you think about deploying that regulatory capital because that’s where your constraints are.
And so we develop this concept of this algorithm where you can actually wait certain factors. So you can say, well obviously it feels like the most significant constraint. So I’ll put a higher waiting on Basel III; or CCAR may feel like more binding constraint. So put a higher waiting on CCAR. And that's one of the foundation for how to think about measuring the capital.
Now that in and of itself isn’t enough and I’ll get to the more specific to getting the bigger issues, are probably more interesting to people. Another question is, how should you think about deploying that capital across a curve? So as you all know, we’ve been more less an 11% ROE fund give or take for about 2.5 years. So internally we have constructed a capital curve and we have a profit for how we think about those returns. Now I'd conveniently make, not given you those returns on the curve, but they set the minimum in terms of how we have to think about our businesses and transactions.
So the tool and the concept of having a minimum curve is exceptionally valuable for us because what it does is, it doesn’t allow us to basically put our capital to work in things that can degrade our ROE unless we decide to. In other words, it may be the case if there's a transaction we should do or something -- a business that we should be growing, which in the near term will have us to say an ROE that is less than our current ROE. But we just want to make sure that we have the visibility strategically. So we elect to make that decision particularly in a world with scarce resources.
Now this curve is a minimum guideline. What’s really important, if you think about on a transaction basis is so we sit in I mentioned some of the committees, recent [ph] investment policy committee and we look at things that [indiscernible] by definition they are longer term in nature, anything over six months and we have a guideline that if anybody wants to deploy capital in excess of six months above $75 million, it has to come to the committee. I sit on the committee.
And so what happens at that committee? They have to obviously present how they want to deploy the balance sheet. We then look at it through this frame work. And the nice thing about it is, it gives us consistency across anything that we look at get.
Then what we’re able to do is question whether not that capital deployment makes sense? Is it valuable to our clients? Is it accretive to ROE? Does it enhance the business? We can make all those judgments marginally by the balance sheet deployment. And so having the framework gives us the transparency into how we’re deploying capital at a very marginal way -- by making marginal decisions. And so over time, it should drive us to grow our returns. Or build access capital.
Now, and I really need to make this answer so long, so I apologize. But if you look at the return curve, actually the return curve, because we haven’t given you details on X and Y axis. But for example think about access capital. We would argue we have excess capital right now. So we have a choice of how we manage that excess capital. As I said before, we do not want to deploy that excess capital into things that degrade our ROAE. So we have a choice. We either invest that capital in high velocity short transaction. So for example, if I could address the -- if I could put that excess liquidity and capital to work in short dated two three months return to get 5%, I would do it because it’s accretive to leaving the money as I said.
Having said that, we would never do that for something that is two years, three years, four years, five years. We’d rather hold the capital, have the opportunity to return it or wait for better opportunity where it’s accretive. And so by allocating down and thinking about the regulatory capital it just gives us the transparency and ability we think to make the most informed decision about how we manage the capital.
Mike Carrier – Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Okay, that’s helpful. And maybe just part of that, as I think about when you were looking at revenues, expenses and then capital, if you’re allocating capital based on where client activity is just on extent we need to have to there. When you look at the global environment firms that are pulling back and investing in certain areas, are you starting to see any re-pricing? Meaning just to at least help you on the revenue side, because obviously you can decide where you're going to put the capital with a better revenue backdrop.
Harvey Schwartz
So there's certainly areas where we’re seeing some re-pricing happening in the more balance sheet intensive parts of the business. Certainly I mentioned the $56 billion cash reduction we went through. I think we -- in some respects we were kind of the first on that but the reality is other people are doing it right now. And so I think it’ll be a natural re-pricing function that accelerates in certain spaces. In an environment where client activity, certainly in the capital intensive businesses has been low, it’s harder to see it day to day. But for example we did see it -- I think we firmly saw it in commodities in the first quarter of this year. As you know we stayed very committed to the commodity business and when volatility picked up in the first quarter of this year at least our dialog with clients, it wasn’t so much about re-pricing but our value contribution for the clients.
So even more differentiated than it normally does and we have a leading commodity business. We work under the assumption that every firm has some version of this. Everybody can approach this problem. There's lots of different ways you can approach this challenge of how you want to think about managing capital in the new world.
And so to the extent to which firms are earnings very low ROEs, which is the case in some parts in the industry, I personally think that’s a sustainable state of the world, although it has been that way for a little while. And so our thesis would be to the extent to which our competitors are in businesses that we’re in and they have businesses for example by analogy like we did with the insurance businesses where we never knew that it could be accretive on the new capital rule, we’re assuming they'll make adjustments, whether they're exit businesses, scaled back or pricing changes, but if you assume the state of the world is -- the status co-exist, then I think you will see less pricing change.
Mike Carrier – Bank of America Merrill Lynch
And then maybe a quick one and then we can open it up for some Q&A. So, if we look the current environment and September - October was a pretty volatile backdrop in most markets, but definitely in fixed income. So just want your take on the environment. It seems like things have gotten a little bit normal, whatever normal is but you've got less volatility. So just anything on the trading side relative to what we saw for a few weeks that was more challenging for the industry.
Harvey Schwartz
So there were two great things -- there were two great things about the month of September. The first one is it was really active. And the second thing is nobody on the call asked me about whether the change figure [ph] was secular or cyclical. And so -- and we’re really close actually in my rank. I think that one of the -- we have a very active audience -- I think that there was an important element to September which to some extent legitimately put a bit of an end to the debate around the fact that people will never want to trade foreign exchange again, they won’t be active in commodities, they're not focused on trading interest rates and that’s our belief. But we’re in a cycle that’s been a long cycle and it's going to be a long cycle. I would describe September as a period of pretty of quite healthy volatility and I would call October obviously would announced in the ’14 and ’15 much more challenging for our clients and naturally I think everybody kind of hit the pause button for a bit. So we're going to have to see how it goes. We're still pretty on in a quarter, but October definitely from the standpoint of people's mindset and perspective of thinking about confidence came back into question little bit.
Mike Carrier – Bank of America Merrill Lynch
So, we’ll open it for any questions from the audience.
Unidentified Analyst
Harvey, thank you very much for that. That was an excellent presentation. One of the points you touched on earlier is really describing how you Goldman execute to get return above your cost of capital and how you think about deploying capital yet you would admit that the ROE that you're getting today is probably on the lowest of the range that's been over the last probably couple of decades and that’s true of the industry. But it's not obvious that it's because of the amount of capital that people have. It would appear that it's because there's a whole lot of people that keep up writing at very low ROEs below they're cost of capital and my suspicion is it's because the cost that exits [indiscernible] incredibly high.
So really my question is, how do you actually get the ROE up? It doesn’t seem to be a capital problem and it doesn’t seem to be quality of business problem for Goldman Sachs. How do you and the industry actually get the ROE to a level that seems consistent with what it should be for the businesses, given the segment and competitive nature of the business?
Harvey Schwartz
It's a great question. So I think if this was in a case study or classic corporate finance question around the industry, I think that these sub performing ROEs for the industry -- like as you point out are 11.2% year-to-date, but September was kind of one of the leading ROEs in industry and so it speaks a lot to what’s happening in industry. This has been an industry where there are lot of degrees of freedom around capital for a very long period of time and so you could go through cycles and we've had cycles. The cycle part of this is nothing new. This cycle is obviously very unique with the quantitative easing and the competitive dynamics in our recent things, but cycles are nothing new.
So in the past there were many more degrees of freedom in terms of how you can manage your level. You could return capital to shareholders, quite frankly you could level up if [indiscernible] ROE and you can stomach that part of it. I don’t know, maybe as in industry we need to get there are muscles over time in terms of our response mechanism. But as I said before I think the increased capital levels, the change is secular for the industry.
Now if you spend five years building up a business and committing and one of the things that definitely happened, because I was managing the business back then. So 2009 Goldman Sachs made $45 billion in revenue and I think our ROE 22.5%. That wasn’t actually I don’t think great for the industry in the following sense. So in 2010, we actually started reducing resources, but we started reducing resources because those of us who were running the businesses, my co-heads, we could see that client activity wasn’t the same as it was in 2009. But if it wasn’t the same then we certainly didn’t need to add people. But I think that was broadly speaking across the industry. I sensed that we need to invest now in this space. So we have big investments, not by everybody certainly but by a number of market participants from 2010 to 2011 just as activity levels started to cool. And so I think it just may take a while, but I don’t have great transparency into it, you have much better transparency in how our competitors think. But the first question that was asked, maybe it is the case that long-term ROEs are going to be whatever they were 10% to 12% or 12% to 14%.
Corporate finance I think would suggest that's not sustainable unless everybody was there, but if you were at the low end of the industry spectrum, how do you get there other than investing real revenues or cut capital or do both. Cutting capital they don’t have the same degrees of freedom. And so that’s why we’ve invested so much time in trying to think about it. And actually one of the reasons why they're the primarily driver of why we don’t have one single target that we communicate.
Dane Holmes
Maybe I can just add maybe one comment, which was the returns are much lower than we used to historically see and just to be a little bit historical, because people don’t look back, we had 10% and 11% ROEs post the tech bubble. So you do see that cyclical movement that happens. But as everybody also knows, it’s also relative game as well. And this is a very interesting statistic. If you look at our returns pre-crisis, we generated on average about 750 basis point ROE premiums at a peer average. If you look at it post crisis, it’s about 650 basis points.
Now part of the reason that’s also significant, it’s one thing when you’re generating a 22% ROE versus a 15% versus a 12% ROE versus a 5%. And so it’s always a bit of relative game. And so in some senses we can’t just target absolutes. We got to think about how we exist relative to the marginal price in the market but from that perspective you’re actually seeing the same degree of average ROE offered today as you saw in the past but in a harder contrast.
Unidentified Analyst
So I guess, one of the things you said at the beginning was you size your businesses and capital relative to client needs. And yet I can think of probably four things where you’ve had to shrink because of the regulators. So it wasn’t necessarily due to client needs. So the examples I'd give would be repo financing, most recently in shrunk in repo book, INL investments have to go away because of Volker. Dealer inventories are the lowest they’ve been in multiple years which is affecting liquidity in a fixed income market. And there was one other one which just escaped me. But I guess the point I'm trying to make is to what extent do you feel you control your own destiny? Because I think it’s one of the things come with the [indiscernible] group and that there are new things that constantly are coming up, the SLR being the most recent one that has required now a revaluation of sort of client financing, security services. And the last one I was thinking of actually was the leverage lending, which I don’t think you’re as big enough from other people. But the next target. So can you just talk about that?
Harvey Schwartz
So it’s great question. Actually I want to be crystal clear in what I was saying. When we think about risk management and how we deploy our capital, one of our operating principles is we don’t give the capital to the business and say here is your capital, go use it. We have found that to be in general a very poor operating mechanism. Because you will get results, but they’ll say well hey, this is the business I'm in, thanks for the capital. I will use it. Then they don’t have -- [indiscernible] languages, this whole concept of having a capital curve that’s a minimum and targets that people have to be above, that’s just about getting the whole firm on sort of a true north perspective. In other words we don’t want people using capital, committing it for five years at 8% returns and degrading your ROAE because that capital can best deployed to other places.
Now that’s an operating principle. I think clients are all around the globe understanding the impact of regulatory reform. The regulators, for anyone who would suggest that the regulators haven’t been productive since the crisis, I'm telling you think is a wild misunderstanding. If you just tick off the things that the regulators have been able to achieve, and I think they should commended for it and not all of us perfect. But Basel III standardized the development of CCAR, European stress test, leverage lending rules, creations of SOP execution facilities, clearing, all these things and that’s the short primary list.
Our clients understand we have to operate in constraints. And so when CCAR became more binding for us in the second quarter, we didn’t say to ourselves okay we’re just going to cut our balance sheets and we’ll just do it without a lot of thought and process.
Now that particular constraint the leverage ratio whether it’s supplementary or in the CCAR test, that’s a somewhat easy post stage constraint to operate around because it’s designed that way. It’s designed for simplicity. Now that gives us some weaknesses but let’s not get into that. So you can just rank your balance sheet from low ROA to high ROA.
Now you have to make a decision how valuable is that marginal $56 billion of balance sheet to the client that you deal with and are there other clients in the firm [indiscernible] tens of thousands of clients that that capital be better deployed to and maybe the case that there will be, I don’t know other banks around the world that would be better providers of match book.
But at some point either that facilitation -- that provision of balance sheet across the industry will get re-priced or other people will provide that service. For us it’s a question of directing the capital where it’s most needed. At the margin I don’t think anybody in the industry at that point in time had any pricing power versus what got on the tax side of the match book. We got our match book very conservatively, not a risk based match book and so it really is a client provision. When you’re having these conservations clients and having thought -- look our clients are pretty smart and they [indiscernible]. When you sit down, you talk to them, they understand the new constraints. I think one of the more important questions is and it’s not where you headed but one of the things that’s very hard to understand or predict is when you take a whole collection of rules, because you mention balance sheets are shrunk, credit risk assets are down across the globe, they all have to see over many years what the implications are for re-pricing and for the capital markets. I know that looking at the heart of your question.
Dane Holmes
Steve can I say one thing on that. I don’t think anybody in the world, forget about financial institutions has 100% control of their destiny. I think it’s a foolhardy assumption.
Harvey Schwartz
Well, definitely for the rest we didn’t mean to apply that.
Dane Holmes
But what do you have is control -- what you have control over and in some sense is -- very much the presentation is about how do we make sure we take the right decisions over the places where we do have control and how you allocate capital and what investments you decided make as a form of exerting control. So we have control nobody does.
Harvey Schwartz
Yes, that’s a good point Dane. Look, at the end of the day the tools, the framework, the curve, those are resources for information, but it’s all about judgment. We have to make judgments, what are the trade-offs? What are the things, what are the businesses that maybe today if you look at a particular business had a low ROAE. It’s not spot metric. It’s graded as spot metric for transactions but it’s not a spot metric for necessarily thinking about strategically about the business. What it does is it says to you, hey you should really look at this business versus this business. And what’s you'll be doing about cost in this business how important is it to clients, where are we in the cycle, so in the end, all these things are about judgment but I think the important point, which did I say at the beginning is there are a lot less degrees of freedom in the world, many more constraints.
Mike Carrier – Bank of America Merrill Lynch
I then before we wrap it up we’re going to do one more polling question. This is just on the thick outlook just given the volatility in September and October. So if we could put that question up. So industry thick revenue expectations in 2015. Options are one way too low by 10%, two, too low by 5%, three, just right; four too high by 5%; or five, way too high by 10%? So we get the clock on. Okay, and now the results. So, pretty even split between people thinking that it’s too low by 5% or too high by 5%. But I would say and it’s probably a little bit of a bias on the too low if you add up the way too low, too low and just right versus the too high. So descent outlook. We’ll wrap it up there. Thanks Harvey.
Harvey Schwartz
Thanks very much. Great to be here everybody.
Mike Carrier – Bank of America Merrill Lynch
And we’ll have a breakout session in the [indiscernible] room which is on the lower level. All right. Thanks a lot.
Copyright policy: All transcripts on this site are the copyright of Seeking Alpha. However, we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists, and are excited to contribute to the democratization of financial information on the Internet. (Until now investors have had to pay thousands of dollars in subscription fees for transcripts.) So our reproduction policy is as follows: You may quote up to 400 words of any transcript on the condition that you attribute the transcript to Seeking Alpha and either link to the original transcript or to www.SeekingAlpha.com. All other use is prohibited.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL, CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION, AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS. IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.