HSBC Holdings PLC (HBC)
May 15, 2013 3:30 am ET
Executives
Douglas Jardine Flint - Executive Chairman
Gulliver Stuart Thomson - Chairman of Group Management Board, Group Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director
Sean P. O'Sullivan - Group Chief Operating Officer, Group Managing Director and Member of Group Management Board
Iain James MacKay - Group Finance Director, Member of Group Management Board and Executive Director
Patrick J. Burke - Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Executive Officer of Card & Retail Services and Senior Executive Vice President of Card & Retail Services
Peter Wong
Analysts
Manus Costello - Autonomous Research LLP
Thomas Rayner - Exane BNP Paribas, Research Division
Michael Helsby - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division
Raul Sinha - JP Morgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Arturo de Frias Marques - Grupo Santander, Research Division
Steven Chan - Citic Securities Co., Ltd., Research Division
Michael Trippitt - Numis Securities Ltd., Research Division
Gary Greenwood - Shore Capital Group Ltd., Research Division
Andrew P. Coombs - Citigroup Inc, Research Division
Gurpreet Singh Sahi - Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Research Division
Chris Manners - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Christopher Wheeler - Mediobanca Securities, Research Division
Sabine Bauer - Fitch Ratings Ltd.
Douglas Jardine Flint
Good morning, and welcome. My only task this morning is to welcome everybody to this strategy update. This is now the third that we've done, and I guess over the last 2.5 years, a huge amount has been achieved against that which was set as in the first one. So this is an opportunity to update you on that, to describe the progress and the program, which is maybe approaching halfway through, but a long way to go, and Stuart and the team are going to take you through what the next phase will be. It's been quite a journey so far. Stuart and the team are all committed to take you to next stage. So at this point, let me hand you over to Stuart.
Gulliver Stuart Thomson
Thanks, Douglas. Good morning. So over the course of the next few hours, I will promise it will be less hours than 2011, we'll explain the investment case again for HSBC. And the order of the day will be as set out on this agenda, which is, I'll start effectively by rehearsing what I think is still a distinctive position that HSBC has, even in the change environment that's evolved over the last 2.5 years. And then I'll go into actually quite considerable detail on what we've achieved in the last 2.5 years. Because although we live it every day, you're all investing in many companies and covering many different stocks. And then we'll go into, after a break, a detailed run-through of the next phase of our strategy. And then we'll take questions and answers about an hour. After which, you're welcome to join us for lunch. The management team is actually in the room. And the reason I want to take a break at one point is so that you can actually talk to them directly, and that also becomes an opportunity over the course of the lunch.
But first, 2 summary slides. The first one being this one, which sets out what we actually have done since 2011. So we announced this actually back in May 2011, and since then, I think we have made considerable progress to transform and reform the HSBC group. And the key highlights include that the 52 disposals and exits announced since 2011, with 12 of these this still to complete, there's been an $8 billion gain on sale, USD 4 billion on annualized sustainable saves, and a headcount reduction of about 28,000 from those sustainable saves, plus actually another 12,000 from the disposals, so headcount down by 40,000. We actually have achieved double-digit loan growth in 15 of our priority markets. We generated $27 billion of capital and we've actually paid $16 billion in gross dividends. And I think, as a management team, we've broken the trickly inertia that others feared would hold us back. And we have evidenced focus management group over at HSBC, unlocking value for you all. As Douglas just said, we're not even halfway through the programs to reshape HSBC. And clearly, some things did not go to plan, which I'll come back on to a little bit later on, and we'll be open and transparent about those as well.
And the second snapshot is what this presentation contains. This is the key takeaways from today. And I wanted to put it upfront, just incase some of you were busy and needed to pop on somewhere else, and to save you having to march through 90 slides to get the conclusion, we'll have it upfront here. Fill up briefly, as we move to the next phase, which is 2014, I'll remind you that we're still on the 2013 targets, obviously, funny enough for 2013. And allow me basically to run through the strategy. The strategy actually remains unchanged. It is actually working. So we're not changing the strategy. There are 3 priorities going forward. When we grow both the business and the dividends. And we're going to run HSBC for both, with our unique geographies, when macro trends support investment and we generate surplus capital, so we can fund growth and we can fund the progressive dividends, okay. What I don't like to think about is we're running the company now simply for the dividend. There's a lot of growth opportunities. We're positioned, as I'll go through in some detail, and those geographies in the world that really will deliver the big difference in the next 20 years. So it's a great opportunity to invest, but there's also, potentially, a great opportunity to increase the dividend. And the logic will simply be, we generate about 60 basis points of capital per year, if GDP growth supports it, we'll deploy the RWAs, the return will come back through PBT and dividends that way. If, actually, GDP growth is weaker, then the capital generation will increase the dividends. What we're also going to look at during as well is subject to PRA approval, and this will be from 2014, is to neutralize the script dividend program. We want to abolish it, because it's really important for our retail shareholders in Hong Kong. But obviously, there's been a dilution, really, in the last -- well, since the rights issue, actually of about 1.3 billion, 1.4 billion shares simply coming about through the scripts. So again, subject to PRA approval, but starting from 2014, we'll look to neutralize the script dividend. We set out therefore these targets. We're sticking to the 12% to 15% return on equity. We actually believe we can achieve this, because the underlying bank is achieving it. The dilution at group level comes about, because we have household and legacy portfolios that are running down, and also because we have sets in conduits in the Global Banking markets business. If you put those to one side, we are actually retrieving the 12% to 15%. And we're actually happy to reconfirm it with a higher Tier 1 capital minimum. What we're also setting is the run with a common equity Tier 1 minimum of 10% on a fully-loaded CRD IV version of Basel III 20, 22 basis, and we're quite confident we can still drive the 12% to 15% with that in mind. The advanced deposit ratio cap will remain less than 90%, it's actually 73%. It's the cap as opposed to our target, but we remain comfortably inside that, and clearly, we continue therefore to signal that this bank will be retail-deposit funded, which we think is again, a substantial source of strength. We're also setting out $2 billion to $3 billion of additional sustainable saves, that will take us through a total of $7 billion of sustainable saves since we started in 2011 by the end of 2016. And that's why we're starting to move. We've focused heavily on sustainable saves to adjust the cost efficiency ratio. This clearly has been the mix. We're in a kind of situation where we've actually outperformed on the cost saves, we're at $4 billion in the first quarter 2013, when we said we'd actually get to $3.5 billion -- well, $2.5 billion to $3.5 billion, actually, by the end of '13, but of course, we've missed the cost efficiency ratio. And actually to be honest, that's mostly because we didn't foresee the collapse of the Eurozone, which came on as immediately after the May 2011 Investor Day. And clearly, the revenue is difficult to drive, you're all aware of that. That wouldn't be the case at the Bank of Japan, the ECB, the bank in the Fed [ph] all had key way if revenue growth was just something along and GDP was great. So therefore, what we want to do is unhook ourselves from the inability to control the revenue because of big macro trends beyond, of course, taking market share, and we'll dig into some of that, and proof of concept to some of that a bit later on. But to reassure you, a very specific, further sustainable cost save is now being set out. So we're going to run it in the mid-50s, but with it -- with also a focus on positive jaws. Clearly, positive jaws implies an improving cost efficiency ratio by definition, yes? And again, well, bear in mind, that even if we're in the mid-50s, we're still a lot better than most our peer group who tends to be in the high 50s to the low 60s. So we're going to be 100% focused on both unlocking and creating value in the group, and realizing that value based on the share price and dividends and in other forms of capital return. So that's basically the output from today, and now we'll build up the kind of logic and detail as to how we've arrived at this.
So I want to basically revisit, and I think it is logical to retest the validity of the strategy that we set out in 2011. In other words, is it still valid? And the fact of the matter is, not an awful lot has happened since 2011. The market environment's been very challenging, and there are several things we didn't expect since May 2011. First, the Eurozone crisis and its impact on the interest rates. Interest rates are going to stay lower for longer. We've got $1.2 trillion of deposits which therefore, net interest margin all will remain quite compressed. We saw a weaker-than-expected global macroeconomic performance. And after the global credit crisis, we saw a breakdown in trust in banks and sovereigns. So this has kind of resulted in strict deregulation and policies which have continued to evolve, and actually evolved quite considerably since 2011. So we've got the EU interpretation of: Basel III by CRD IV; ring-fencing proposals; vectors in the U.K. like in Europe; G-SIFI surcharges from FSD; the Dodd-Frank Act in the United States; and most recently, compensation restrictions in the EU under CRD IV. So the outcome is obviously a significant change in the industry environment and challenges on banks profitability. All of these has happened in the last 2.5 years. And actually, the interesting fact, which you'll all be aware of, is the banking industry has increased its capital base by about 57% since 2007, while revenues remain mostly flat. So effectively, the industry has de-leveraged. Growth outlook does remain challenging, which means banks will have to do a lot more discipline about margin that costs going forward, and Shawn will talk in detail about this. And actually, one of the things I think that's happening and changing in the industry, is the banking industry will have to now manage its cost in a way most other industries have had to do for a very long time. The banking industry, in a way, probably because of 3 main trends, has not had to be as focused on its cost as manufacturing companies have had to be. The banking industry was able to reach, in the case of some of our competitors, not us, the high levels of leverage. The banking industry was able to reach the alchemy, which also, we didn't do, i.e. making products that are worth 2 that you sell for 12. And the banking industry was also able to benefit from ever-new emerging markets, where the demographic wave actually resulted in entering new markets with very high spreads, which initially in the first 10, 15 years of any developing markets development remain very high and then eventually narrow up. That, we have benefited from, and that is no longer there. So we think we're going to be running this firm basically each year, challenging management to take 2% to 3% after the cost base, and that's kind of what we would have been doing, had we worked in the auto industry or pharmaceuticals for the last several years.
But I think all of these important questions, therefore, raise the issue of are the 2 major global trends which we actually set our strategy on, are they still actually valid? Well, the first one, if you remember, was our belief that the world economy was rebalancing. That there was a shift, a once-in-generation shift of economic activity moving from the developed world to the emerging markets. We believe this trend remains completely valid, and it benefits HSBC because of our long history in those economies which will represent the greatest growth opportunity for the next 20 years. That still remains completely intact today, macro position that benefits of this bank. Secondly, we said as well that the global macroeconomic environment and the economic development and this rebalancing would continue. And since 2011, the global macro economic environment has actually deteriorated. But despite the slowdown, the fundamental trend is still intact, because if you look at the last 2.5 years, faster growing market GDP has averaged 3 to 4x higher than mature markets. So that effect of a once-in-a-lifetime shift in the emerging markets and the emerging markets themselves growing at a much faster pace, has remained completely intact. We also said that continued trade growth and capital flows to offset global imbalances would be a considerable beneficiary to HSBC given our geographic footprint. And we believe that this trend is still in place in terms of trade, but not in terms of capital flow. So if you look at this, and since trade is so critical, I think it's worth diving into this in some detail. Trade continues to grow, but it's clearly affected by the overall macroeconomic environment. The fastest-growing trade corridors remains those between mature and faster growing markets, which fits us, and the south -- so-called South-South trade, which is emerging markets to emerging markets, which fits us. Now the capital, cross-border capital flows, have seen a significant decrease, and that's primarily driven by West European banks, scaling back their international activities, to focus more on their respective home markets. In actual fact, although we didn't foresee this in considerable detail back in 2011, of course, this has actually also benefited us. Because as those European banks pulled out of Asia Pacific, particularly in the case of the French, out of the Middle East, in the case of the Germans, and actually pulled back in Latin America, in the case of the Spanish, we've been able to actually take quite considerable market share. So in a funny sort of way, the declining capital flows, at this point in time, because of the cause of it, i.e. it weakness in European banks, in particular, has actually resulted in a beneficial effect to HSBC. So that underlying proposition, again, has remained intact.
So if you look at, in essence, these significant trends, and then mat them to HSBC's ability to capture the opportunities the trends create. We have a meaningful presence in many attractive growth markets that allows us to take advantage of organic growth opportunities. We're one of the best capitalized banks in the world, and we have a stable funding base in deposits. And we're obviously very committed to these strategic markets because we've been in them for a very, very long time. We've not just woken up to some of the opportunities that exist in Asia Pacific or the Middle East. And on that work comes about 90% of all global trade and capital flows. The other big advantage we have is we have local balance sheets, liquidity and local currencies, which actually is a very heavy and high entry-level barrier just at the micro level if you want to do high-yield bonds in Asia, because an awful lot of these are actually in domestic currency. Unless you go to domestic deposit base, you actually can't do this. And we also have local trading capabilities in the most relevant financial hubs, so I continue to believe that we have key competitive advantages. And we're also present in the most attractive markets. We have meaningful exposure to grow through our presence in the most attractive, mature and fast-growing markets. Now, our priority markets cover about 58% of the total addressable banking revenues growth through 2020 based on data from McKinsey. So what's this is trying to do, is to say that, what's the addressable revenue pull that a bank can get at, okay? And what we've done here is we've excluded from the adjustable banking revenue Retail Banking in the U.S.A., Mainland China and Germany, because we're not going to be able to. We don't want to in the U.S.A., regulation won't allow us in China, and we do not have that business strategy in Germany. So this is the addressable wallet that actually HSBC can aspire to get to. And clearly, if you look at this, you can see essentially that we are positioned across most of that opportunity, a very significant chunk of that opportunity.
Now growth is projected, if you look at this, to be concentrated in Mainland China, Brazil, India and the U.S. And a study by Boston consulting group projects there'll be approximately 10,000 billion-dollar companies by 2020, versus 4,000 in 2012. And the majority of these companies, over 60%, are going to be from faster-growing markets where HSBC has an established presence, such as China and India. So these are markets where we have a presence and can capture a meaningful share of the available wallet.
Let me spend a bit of time on China because this is an incredibly important country for HSBC, clearly being in the name. So if you look at China, we actually don't need thousands of branches to capture a meaningful share of the economic development. This is a bit of a myth that actually a number of people have adopted. GDP growth in the Commercial Banking opportunity are highly concentrated in city clusters, okay. I think that you need to recognize that, actually in most countries, there is a move towards urban or city clusters, the creation of conurbations rather like the Tokyo, Kawasaki, Yokohama conurbation in Japan. So GDP growth in Commercial Banking opportunity are basically concentrated in city clusters. And these are defined as areas in the radius of 100 to 200 kilometers carrying several large cities. Now the top 10 city clusters in Mainland China are forecast to cover 70% of total GDP, and international banking revenue opportunities between 2010 and 2025. Now, for example, the cities in Guangdong province, and that's a map of Guangdong province, which is mainland China's greatest exporter, and it contribute 11% of China's GDP, with Guangzhou and Shenzhen of both populations of over 10 million. And what we think will happen in here, and this is the big growth opportunity in Hong Kong, is that actually as the border becomes more porous, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Hong Kong will become a conurbation. It will become a conurbation of 45 million people. And the factual analogue you need to think about is Tokyo Kawasaki Yokohama, that's the big growth opportunity. So using CEPA, the Closed Economic Participation Agreement between Hong Kong and China, because the Hong Kong Shanghai Banking Corporation is a Hong Kong-listed entity, we're allowed to open 20 to 30 branches per year in this province. So we will be able to build up, and this is in addition to the branches that we're opening in the rest of China. So the focus will be on this conurbation. If you look across the rest of China, we are in all of the big urban clusters, the city clusters, which represents 70% of the GDP opportunity, and most importantly, 70% of the Commercial Banking in GBM opportunity, because that's the bit that we can address. So the idea when you look at this and say, well, you've got 150 branches, and you're opening 30 a year, maybe you're at 400 branches in due course, big focus on this conurbation, how can you piece against the local Chinese bank? And we're not. We're not trying to do Retail Banking and Wealth Management, we're trying to actually represent the fact that we've got the biggest international network and therefore, as Beijing goes to it -- going overseas policy, we can connect Chinese companies and British, German, French companies, et cetera, to that opportunity. And you need to be in those city clusters, and we're in those city clusters because you don't need a pan-Chinese strategy to do this. Then specifically, and this is really important, this focus on essentially Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Hong Kong as a conurbation, is part of the growth opportunity for our Hong Kong business. And this is actually really quite exciting. And as I say, we have under CEPA, completely alongside the CBRC approval process for, if you like national branches, the ability to open to 20 to 30. So who else can do this? Well, Bank of East Asia can, and Dah Sing Bank can, but you need to be a Hong Kong incorporated listed bank to take advantage of CEPA. So actually, American banks can't, yes. So this is also something where clearly since Hong Kong is, and this is the Cantonese-speaking area, we have tremendous recognition. Because by definition, most people in this area are watching kind of Hong Kong satellite TV every day, are traveling backwards and forwards as the high-speed railway is put in place, and this will become essentially a completely connected economic corridor.
Now, again, in terms of size of network, we also get criticized for the size of our network in Brazil, maybe ideas with subscale and the size of our network in India, where it's taken us since 1854 to get to about 55 branches, so a disappointing rate of opening. To replicate the U.K. branch network, about year 3020, by which time we'll all be well overdoing Investor Days. But actually again, in Brazil and in India, it's the same argument, it's all about about city clusters, it's all about our urban clusters. It's really good work the booking institute have done about this. So again, in Brazil, the top 10 city clusters to fill, cost to cover 80% of total GDP and 80% of the international commercial banking revenue growth between '10 and '25.
In India, the top 10 city clusters are forecast to cover about 40% of total GDP. But 70%, again, at the international commercial banking revenue growth. And again, it's a concentration where your export industies sit. In both cases, we have meaningful coverage within our existing network of both of these.
Now going into the network, the network continues to cover, post disposals, 90% of the international trading capital flows. So trading capital flows connectivity remains concentrated in 38 markets, they represent about 90% of growth. This was the case 2.5 years ago, it remains the case today. And our network covers actually 90% of the global trading capital flows, thus we're well positioned to capture trade, FDI, FX reserve growth, external debt growth. The 22 home and priority markets cover 64% of trade growth and 60% of FDI flows, and I'll come on in a moment to define the home and priority markets. But you can remember, I showed this one last couple of years.
And so therefore, in many ways, we believe, that our business benefits from that cost law that asserts that the valuable network grows as the square of a number of its nodes. In our case, it means we have to be present in the places that are key for global connectivity, yes. And the disposals have made no and no way have impaired this network during the last couple of years. Because clearly, we did the analysis before we did the disposals.
We also still believe, rather self-evidently, in the advantages of the universal banking model. We believe that there are tremendous benefits and it being diversified by customer group, by geography and by activity, it creates tremendous stability. What it causes change is that HSBC is now materially more focused post disposals and reorganization than it was in the past. And actually, I think, we now have started hopefully to build as a management team some track record around focused execution.
So I now want to talk about effectively the track record in delivering change, what we have done over the first phase. For those of you follow us intimately, I apologize, some of this will be repetitive. But I think it is worth spending a little bit of time going through this almost as a report card, report back to you, our owners. So as you've seen, the macro trends still support HSBC. So now let's look up what we've actually done. But first, I want to make it rather simple, but actually a quite powerful point. If you read the transcripts of the 2011 and 2012 investor updates, we have attempted what we said we would. It seems rather simple a comment, but it doesn't seem to be often the case with banks, in particular, over the last couple of 2 years. So the vision that we articulated for HSBC and defined for HSBC, and this is a really key slide, has a very logical sequence. So starting with our purpose, we defined the reason why the group exists. It's extremely important actually for your internal community of your colleagues to define why on earth the firm exists, okay. And actually, obviously, for most banks, they would never gaze any thought to this for a large part of recent history. Why does the bank exist? What's the point of it all? So we actually have set out, and I won't read it out to you, a very, very clear statement of why this firm exists and what it does, yes. And actually to be honest, and this is a bit of a slide bar, is incredibly important for your recruitment. So if you're going to get graduates now from university to want to join this industry, which is key if we're going to bring talent in, now, that eventually will be leading the firm, they have to think that there is a purpose and there's a value to what on earth the firm does, okay. It is no longer good enough to have a complete unstated or not-thought-through reasons to why or not your firm exists. The second thing we did is we rolled out a very significant program around values, and these are set out here as well. But this is incredibly important because it defines how we behave at HSBC. And we started this from January of 2011, and clearly, this is part in part of helping us deal with the deferred prosecution agreement and the events that have taken place also around customer addresses on in the U.K. You have to be able to shift the soft side, the behavioral values of the company, as well as kind of hard financial targets. We set out a strategy, which I've just rechecked against these significant macro trends. So there's an -- if we believe that trading capital flows will continue to grow, which we do, we capture it through commercial banking, global markets. If we believe that the emerging market's economic growth are shifting from the developed, the emerging markets, then we will capture that, a faster wealth creation in Retail Banking Wealth Management and Private Banking. And the outcome is actually that we would deliver consistent returns with what we think is an appropriate balance. And the appropriate balance generally was set out as a mix of 50%, 35%, 15%. 50% retains a build capital, to create a buffer, to protect the taxpayer from any economic accidents that we might have. 35% to gather our owners, the shareholders, and 15% to the staff. And we felt that, that was a logical and sensible and supportable balance. What we're effectively illustrating here is we're going to shift it slightly. Because we have now got to position where we believe we have sufficient of a capital buffer to meet regulatory requirements, which kind of 9.5%, to create a 50 basis points clear water between that, which is what the 10% is about. And therefore, we're going to shift this to a 45% of earnings retained, 40 dividends, and 15% in terms of compensation to staff. And we'll talk about in detail about how this dividend shift sort of take place, but this is an important market to put down. We're quite clearly signaling that the mix of the appropriate balance we're nudging towards dividend growth. And again, it is clearly going to come about that if economic growth is not at a level to consume the additional capital we're creating, we will return it to our shareholders. And what we want though, to do though, and expect to do, is to be able to do both. We expect to be able to grow the business and to be able to grow the dividend. But as I say, there's been some confusion, I think, around in terms of what our attitude to this is, so that's why we're clearly setting out here what it is.
So what we also just need to quickly bounce through again is the unexpected things that happened since May of 2011, and this is my way of really explaining and accepting the fact, we did miss the cost efficiency ratio. We missed it mainly because of -- mainly because of revenue, because didn't foresee what was going to happen to the Eurozone in QE. And we also missed it because we -- and this is a mistake, we, as a management team made, we underestimated the size of the underinvestment and compliance of legal, so there is a permanent increase in cost there. We also, I think arguably, should have had a better sense of the severity of the regulatory enforcement actions in the U.S.A. and indeed, the size of the customer address in the U.K. On the other hand, actually, there were also unexpected opportunities that came up. There were opportunities to invest in certain of the emerging market businesses, which we also didn't project in May of 2011 that have clearly generated positive jaws. But we clearly did miss on certain things, a, because certain things reduced our revenues which were kind of unforeseeable. And b, because of internal, if you like specific to HSBC things that we probably should have had a better handle around.
But we have made material progress over the last 2 years. And despite these events we generally have, and this is key, I think we have shown an ability to change HSBC, to reform it, to transform it, and together, our arms around this group and actually manage it. A lot of the criticism of HSBC historically has been that is a very large bureaucratic organization. This trickly inertia comment that you'll recall was made after the first Investor Day by one of the newspapers. And I think what we've indicated now is, actually, we can drive significant change. So we've announced a total of 52 disposals, cut 40,000 off the headcount, $4 billion off the cost base, and actually we have increased revenues in faster-growing regions by 25%. There's been a 20% increase in commercial banking revenues over the period. It's been double-digit loan growth in 15 out of the 22 priority markets. And I think all of this, which has clearly generated capital dividends and has led to some re-rating of the stock comes about because we're showing much greater management grip on how we run the firm. So we set up the initially the 5 filters, which I talked about on the very first day, which we've run every business and continue to run every business through, okay. So this is a continuous process, this is not a one-off event. So we continue to run everything through, what is the strategic relevance of the country? Is it going to be in the top 30, 40 economies in the world? What it's connectivity by trading capital flows to other comes? What its connectivity by trading capital flows to other economies. Once it's through that, then the specific ones about HSBC, how profitable is it? What's its cost efficiency ratio? Is its AD ratio under 100%? And therefore, you come with decisions if the connectivity in that current development is high, I'll invest, turnaround to improve if it's low, continue as is if we're hitting all of the profitability to finish liquidity targets or x that. Then we've also added the sixth filter, which is about global risk standards. And this is clearly about financial crime risk, and it's fairly obvious why we would need to do this and would need to actually clearly future proof our business against ever having the kind of terrible situation that happened to us in the 2002, 2008 period in Mexico and the United States. Those 6 pillars have therefore led to an unprecedented number of disposals and exits. The 6 pillars of framework helps us to identify a large number of nonstrategic businesses in our portfolio and there's been 52 disposals and exits. There's 12 still to close at this moment. In the past, in 2010, the group redeployed capital and a number of acquisitions across different geographies and business lines. And clearly, some of these acquisitions were not successfully integrated into our business. So if you look, there's quite a contrast. There's a period clearly from 2000, 2010 where we invested and bought things. And in a period from 2011 to now, we have disposed of a number of investments to make the firm easier to manage, easier to control, more focused. What, I guess, I'm also saying is that, therefore we are unlikely to redeploy capital into any significant M&A deal.
And there's 2 reasons -- 3 reasons for that. One is we're already in the top level of G-SIFI. We're already amongst 4 banks that are regarded as the most systemically significant.
So therefore, we are unlikely to get regulatory approval for any big transformational deal. Secondly, we've exhibited quite clearly a great ability to run our bank organically and a less great ability to do acquisitions. And then the third thing is, I think it is much more likely, given that we will deploy the 6 thoughts on any acquisitions, that any acquisition that does take place, I'm not ruling them out, would be in-country and as a bolt-on on. So they're going to be in countries, most likely in the 2 home markets, the 20 priority markets, where we're also, and this kind of a 7th filter, absolutely confident that our bank has great management, great people, and can completely dominate the target that we're actually taking on.
So therefore, what I'm really saying is any acquisition we will be bolt-on, it will therefore be quite small. It will, therefore, be in the obvious set of countries, and in those countries where we can absolutely dominate any target that takes place. It is therefore most likely that our growth will be organic, and that's actually a good thing because we've got a very good track record, Commercial Banking, Global Banking and Markets, are building businesses organically.
So if you look at an overview of the 52 disposals and exits, which makes the firm much more focused, in the U.S. we're repositioning the bank. We disposed off the car business and the upstate New York branches. These were 2 large transactions in which we achieved a very positive outcome. We have further major transactions across Panama, Ping An, disposal first our insurance businesses. And at the same time, the 6 filters identified a number of small, non-strategic businesses, which rather than strengthening the group with subscale, consumed a disproportionate amount of resources in management and/or create a substantial potential risk for compliance issues. So the firm has actually, I think, made much more fit for purpose by what we've done over the last 2.5 years.
We've also refocused our associates investment. So we have 2 major associate holdings, which are strategic. Bank of Communications in Mainland China, where we're continue to strengthen collaboration. And you should just be aware that we have a joint program going between Bank of Communications and ourselves, with me leading it from the HSBC point of view, Helen Wong [ph], who is our CEO in China, running it day to day. And now Chairman Yu [ph] of Bank of Communications, who was [indiscernible] just recently and was promoted, running it from the Bank of Communications side.
Because Bank of Communications and we both know that people don’t buy HSBC stock for us to go and buy another listed stock that they could buy themselves. Unless we can clearly demonstrate that by having that shareholding, we do our business between the 2 banks. So there absolutely is a program, and clearly where the focus is, is the coming overseas policies. Because actually BoCom, through it's access to HSBC, has got the biggest international network. ICBC is in 34 countries, BoCom by virtue of its connection to us is in the 70 to 80 countries that HSBC sits in.
So there's a significant work stream focused on doing this and we would expect, possibly not in 2014, but certainly in 2015, to have the Chairman of BoCom here at Investor Day. He has agreed to do so. To talk to a couple of slides that actually talk about the work between BoCom and HSBC. So we're critically aware of what the issue for you all as shareholders is, and that's why we are putting a great deal of effort into being able to demonstrate that there is a value to HSBC shareholders from us having the stake in BoCom.
Saudi British Bank has been a bank that we've had since the late 1970s, where we have the management contract, we have the maximum shareholding you're allowed within Saudi Arabia and this has been a long standing and profitable operation, which is a core part of our Middle East strategy. There are 2 that we haven't classified effectively as available for sale, Industrial Bank and Bank of Shanghai, so I take each in turn.
Bank of Shanghai is actually quite modest. It really isn't something that, frankly, will move the dial as and when we do whenever we do with it. It's probably worth USD 500 million to USD 600 million, so one should really not spend too much time on it. Industrial Bank is obviously owned by Hang Seng Bank, and it's up to Hang Seng Bank's board to decide what they do. But the change of accounting treatment is clearly signaling as to what the intention is for Industrial Bank. And clearly, during 2012 and closing in the first part of 2013, we completed the sale of Ping An.
I also want to talk a bit about the progress we've made in running down and derisking the U.S. legacy portfolio. This is clearly a runoff business. And we have made progress this year in selling the non-real estate piece, which is the little gray bar with 4 in it at the top of the sort of red bars. And that basically closes -- closed in April, so that's now been sold. We expect the book to run down to about $20 billion by 2016, which will consist of about sales of approximately $7.5 billion and a run-off charge off of about $13 billion. So by 2016, the residual piece will be about $20 billion based on what we see today, i.e. what the property market looks like at this moment in time as opposed to forecasting either a considerable improvement in it or deterioration in it. So that's the kind of freeze the economic conditions in the property market today, look forward, that's where that book would run down to.
So it continues to basically become less and less of an issue for HSBC as we go forward. And this is also clearly part of what releases capital and releases that ROE, because this is the dilutive bit. And the other dilutive bit is obviously the asset-backed securities held and available for sale, and this is in conduits. This again continues to run down and again, is being run within Samir's area on the basis of looking wherever we can, wherever the mass work to create release of capital to actually run this book down. It's harder to put a number on how this run down because it doesn't have to have a natural kind of run-off the way the mortgage book does. It is though worth reminding everyone that actually back in 2008, there was an AFS reserve of nearly $18.9 billion negative against this, which is actually now, actually completely come back.
So when we said then, that actually the distortion was largely due to illiquidity, and actually the underlying assets were reasonably strong, that has actually so far proven to be the case. So that AFS reserve negative has improved actually by about $17 billion, $17.5 billion over the period since 2008.
This is incredibly important. It's a deeply wordy slide, for which there is no other way of showing this. And it is, however, really at the heart of making HSBC easier to control, easier to manage, more focused, okay? And this is the kind of the biggest changes that we have. We have created 4 global businesses. The firm, as you know, was run geographically. It was run in a very geographically decentralized basis, and there was a large problem of fiefdom within the organization.
So starting in January of 2011, we created 4 global businesses, we created 10 global functions, plus the IT business, so 11 in total. And we basically, for the -- and 5 regions. And for the first time, we said to the people running the global functions, you have total authority over all your people worldwide. So if you are the Heads of Risk, if you're the Chief Financial Officer, if you're the Chief Legal Officer, you own all of finance, legal, risk, et cetera people, HR people around the world. That was not the case previously. Previously, there would be direct reporting lines to the country head, and there would be a reporting line also to the function. But authority has to be clear, one of the problems in Mexico was the failure to escalate information. Now failure to escalate information can be reduced -- the risk of it can be reduced by effectively moving from a situation where you have the country head, so you kind of got 2 eyes looking at the operation, you rely on the country head to come to the center and tell you what's going on.
Now, you've got effectively 11 functions and 4 global businesses plus the country heads, you got 16 people who actually have a obligation to look at the risks in every country. So the likelihood of us getting to know and the board getting to know that something is going awry is considerably greater by this organizational change. It also enables us to manage costs and to manage capital allocation in a much more structured way than has previously taken place.
So we've defined the global business and function, we've also started to drive through consistent business and operating models, which is part of the reason why we've been able to take the cost out. Because again, if you run this thing out, 88 different retail banks, you can quite easily see, there's massive duplication or there's massive missed opportunities to get effectively systems synergies or indeed, cost savings.
So the last 2 years, we focused on delivering consistency and operational rigor across all our markets in recognition of the [indiscernible] works, that we have all the parts lined up and march against that. And we've also reduced unnecessary layers in the organization. There's been a program again that Sean will talk about, to reduce the layers in the firm, this 8x8 strategy, so that no manager should have less than 8 direct reports and there should be no more than 8 layers between myself, and effectively, the kind of lowest common denominator in terms of revenue producer. At certain parts of the firm in 2011, there were 17 layers, and actually there were quite a number of people reporting to themselves. Who did very well in their appraisals. Consistently. Quite like school cards.
So what we've also done is define the cost for these 4 global businesses, the activities that take place in them. So effectively, we're doing 17 core activities, but this is really most important. One of the big things that's put up against HSBC is, "Okay, HSBC, you're a huge organization, you're too big to manage. And you know what, because you stumbled in Mexico and the United States, we thought you are quite well managed, but obviously you guys can't get your own [indiscernible], either. So you should break all these banks up." My thoughts of this is I think you can be big if you do a number of straightforward things. So if you effectively say, "Look, there are 4 businesses and we can undertake these activities in each of them, then you can logically see how you can scale across multiple geographies." I think if you're massively complex, it's very difficult to be extremely big as well. But I think if actually you do reasonably straightforward things, it's possible. And this, again, is a very important element in simplifying the group and dealing with this challenge. And of course the most important thing in dealing with the challenge of is to be to manage, is effectively about the talent.
So the senior leadership team that lead the bank have been subject to quite significant change. So we've changed roughly half of our management team since the end of 2010, 5 group management board members and 19 group general managers have retired or left. The leadership team is now a strong mix of experienced HSBC executives and selected external hires. I think we believe it's always important and essential to inject fresh ideas from outside. We've also established strong connections between leaders across businesses and functions by forcing cooperation. And we've also basically established a talent pool and are looking to grow it.
So there are 250,000 people roughly in the firm, 254,000. So we're basically looking to populate the talent pool of 250 to move the number of group general managers up from 34 to 60 and the group managing directors from 12 to 15. That will give us about 320, 325 people that we can describe as the senior management to the firm. Because one of the things I would observe as the CEO of a bank is because the way the industry is regarded in a very low way, in a very distrusting way, there's been this kind of shift that really banks are sole proprietorships, which is where you get to this it's too big to manage notion, because you get this kind of thematic that something goes wrong somewhere in the world, and the CEO of whatever bank should immediately resign.
That builds this notion as any one person running that bank at any moment in time, which actually if there was any one person, clearly, this is a bit big to manage. But actually I have 325 people in my senior management team. We're running something that's bigger than the U.K. armed forces to put in the context, so the size of a small town. So therefore, you would expect us to have a structure, and we have a structure. So that structure is 15, 60, 250, and we brought together that senior management team a couple of weeks ago at an offsite to talk about this presentation that I'm going through today to actually get consensus around those 325 people as the fact that, clearly, we're going to out and that you execute this in the next stage.
We've also, therefore, are developing a talent pipeline. There's a lot of organization going around this. And we've also developed now very deep succession plans, a very deep succession planning document. There, for the top 270 jobs in the firm, have successes named in the 0 to 12 months, 12 -- 1-year to 3-year and 3-years to 5-year, every job. What? For every job in the 269. That therefore clearly gives us mapping. It also gives the board sight to who the emerging talent is in the firm. And so this becomes effectively a document that I will, I carry with me and used to actually move people around the firm. So it's the position roundness.
I also think it's just worth talking again about 2 things, the international manager program. This has been a defining program for HSBC since time began. We continue to run it, the change we've made is as follows: What we've actually looked around? If I look around at the group management board and the people who attended and look at that 20 people, there's actually only 3 people who are international managers. If you go back to say 1997, the equivalent group, 100% would have been international managers. And what's happened is the international manager program, as historically configured, not as now will be, did not equip international managers with technical banking skills to become approved by regulators. So the international manager has tended to move around, rather like an ambassador into the foreign office here.
Now I want to change that. So what we've done is, we stopped taking international managers direct from university into the international manager program. You join into Commercial Banking, Global Banking and Markets, Private Banking, Retail Banking, Wealth Management. Then after 3 to 5 years, you apply for the international manager program from within. You've started to pick up banking skills. You become both part of Commercial Banking and an International Manager, part of Global Banking markets and International Manager, therefore, 25 years in your career, you will be able to get through the PRA, the Feds, the OCC's qualifications to rise right to the top of the firm. It's a really important part of our culture, I think, it's therefore being reset to what we now need to create in a much more complicated world.
And we also continue actually to be able to attract quite a lot of graduates. This is quite important because clearly, given our significant brand and reputational damage from the deferred prosecution agreement, we were quite concerned that we would actually find a drop off. We haven't actually. Just recently at a leading European business school, 20% of the MBA-plus [ph] applied for a position at HSBC. So we're still seeing actually the firm as being an attractive firm to work for. And again, just to take some diversity examples, 78% of the GGMs, 19% of the talent pool, and 53% of our total staff are women. And we've got a total of about 28,000 Chinese staff in Mainland China. And if you take the Chinese Diaspora, there's about 80,000 in the firm globally.
I think we've also emphasized and I wish to reemphasize, the extent to which we've made strong progress in transforming organization. We really have reshaped the portfolio, we simplified the organization, we've launched these 4 programs to basically take cost out, and the cost have come out of the firm.
There's also, as I said, being considerable progress. We have achieved material growth in PBT in both Retail Banking Wealth Management, but household to one side, and look at the business that exists in the rest of the group, and in Commercial Banking. And we've grown market share in these businesses. We've grown market share in Global Banking and Market, and quite clearly, benefiting from the fact that some of our European competitors have been impacted. And we've also, defined and broken the set of countries down into the home markets, the priority growth markets, networks and the small markets and exited the rest.
Again, if you start looking at 88 countries, what you very quickly discover is actually the 2 home markets camp for 45% of the PBT, and if you add in the priority and growth markets, you're up at kind of 90% of the PBT. But you need the network markets to drive your trade proposition and to drive your payments and cash management proposition. If you're not in some of the smaller countries, you can't do Unilever or GlaxoSmithKline Beecham's BCM. You can't do the trade unless you're on the receiving side. But therefore the portfolio is now logical that you can expect the bulk of our investment will go into these 22 countries, the home markets and the priority growth markets.
There's a lot of talk about that little growth coming through, but I think this is quite an interesting slide. So listing 12% GDP growth over the 2010 to 2012 period in the faster growing priority markets, and our loan growth has grown by 24%. So actually there is considerable growth coming through, this is my point about we didn't foresee this either, no we didn't foresee customer regress in the U.K., but we didn't see the opportunity of such spectacular GDP growth in a number of markets. So there has been substantial loan growth. And we have therefore maintained our position as the largest foreign bank in China, we've established 17 China desks globally. In India, we've turned around a loss-making RBWM business. In Singapore, we have leadership in foreign exchange, in advisory. Indonesia, Malaysia, we've got the top share in trade. Brazil, the loan growth in CMB has moved on in a sharp pace. And actually, in Mexico, we've grown our business as well. So it's quite clear that in the emerging markets, there's actually been pretty good to growth quite honestly.
And then in the U.K., even in the mature markets, we focus on growing our share of new mortgages, which is at 12%, up from 9%, and our share of U.K. trade finance, which has actually substantially increased from 13% to 17%. A clear competitive advantage, for this firm, is to connect U.K. SMEs with international business to the countries outside of the -- or beyond the Eurozone. In Canada, there's been strong progress. In the U.S., there's been strong progress, and even in France.
So in the priority mature markets, we've taken advantage of the dislocation of the market in order to be able to grow. And even in Retail Banking and Wealth Management which clearly has the legacy issue of the household book, there's been substantial momentum. This was the most local and fragmented business. So this was the business that came furthest away from being able to be run as a global business. I think even now, and I think John Flint [ph], who is in the front here, would agree with me that whilst the business is now governed globally, it's still not yet run today, today as such. And that's a journey which John will deliver for me shortly, by lunchtime.
But in all seriousness, to get something -- this is where the big cost opportunity is. If you run 88 separate businesses, you've got multiple product variety. You've got multiple systems variety. This is why we are confident we have the ability to take more cost out. It's because we have in certain places have 9, 10, 11 different varieties of credit cards. We have 9, 10, 11 different varieties of the most basic things, checkbooks, et cetera, all of that adds to your cost base. There are multiple variations on Internet offerings and Internet platforms. Just in the Retail Banking area, there's 30-odd different versions of Internet offerings. Because it's being run decentralized. So everyone's developed their own. So rather than actually having 1 portal and having it in 9 languages, you've got massive variety. The team can therefore take significant cost out by bringing this together.
We've also seen reasonably good progress in collaboration between Commercial Banking and Global Banking and Markets, the low hanging fruit we've captured quickly, which is internalizing our own foreign exchange flow and actually the big growth in high-yield. We have a dominant now high-yield position in Asia, where we are now the lead table rankings of 1. Again, go back for 1 year, Morgan Stanley will be one way to being kind of outside it. Why that happened is actually now there's tight working relationship between Sameer and Allan, between Commercial Banking and Global Banking and Market, so those SMEs are going to the high yield bond market without the HSBC leading it.
So what this is -- the outcome so far has been, is as follows. We've generated and retained about $27 billion of shareholders' equity since 2010. This has contributed an increase in our Capital One ratio, CT 1 ratio, to 12.3 from 10.5. That's despite the implementation of Basel 2.5, CRD3. We've made a total of $16 billion of dividend payments from '10 to '12, we were #2 dividend payer in the FTSE and #5 dividend payer in the Hang Seng. And I think we've seen a reasonably strong commitment from our top shareholders. 80% of our top shareholders at the end of '12 were also the top 50 at the end of '10. So there hasn't been significant churn in the register. And more than 60% of the top 50 shareholders have increased their holdings of HSBC during this period.
If you then take a look at it from a share price growth versus the world index, we slightly outperformed the MSCI World Index, we've slightly outperformed the MSCI World Index. And this effectively, I think, is clearly down to some sense that we've re-rated back to a price-to-book of 1.2, because we have delivered on what we said we would do in 2011. So that brings us up-to-date, and that share price is at the 10th of May.
And now we're going to take a 15-minute break, and then we'll get into the next phase of the strategy. Thank you.
[Break]
Gulliver Stuart Thomson
Okay, thanks for very much for coming back. Disappointingly full house actually, having done that snapshot right at the beginning. Let's go into the next section. I think what we hopefully have given you the impression that we created a lot more simplicity in our business model, and actually some depth in our management team. And we've got a clear plan for continued deliver. So let's focus first of all on the priorities. So there are 3 priorities.
We're going to grow the business and we're going to grow the dividends. We're going to leverage our capital generation to invest in mostly organic opportunities. And so I wouldn't rule out an in-country bolt-on where we could dominate whatever we're bolting-on. But mostly, this will actually be organic growth. We're going to progressively grow the dividend, and as may be appropriate, starting share buybacks from as early as 2014, subject to meeting U.K. regulatory capital requirements and receiving shareholder approval.
We will secondly, implement global standards, building a more sustainable business model, by investing in best-in-class risk and compliance capabilities and derisking operations in the high-risk locations. And we're going to continue to streamline processes and procedures. By 2016, the legacy and nonstrategic markets, reduced impact on PBT and RWAs will make significant progress in implementing global standards, and we'll also have delivered the $2 billion to $3 billion of sustainable saves.
So let me first of all talk about how we're going to go about investing. There will be a process around this, there will be a structure around this, just as we have the 6 filters to decide what we're going to keep and what we may buy, we will also create a structure of how we will invest the surface capital to grow the business. In 2011, we introduced the 5 filters, now 6, which has been a great tool to determine what fits and does not fit into our portfolio. And based on the strong historical capital generation of about 60 basis points gross of dividends -- or net of dividends per year and our robust capital position, we have the capacity for additional growth. Obviously, it depends on what GDP delivers whether we can grow, but we have the capacity to grow. So we have the capacity to do 2 things, to grow and to increase dividends.
And clearly, we're going to prioritize opportunities within our portfolio, and decide where we should invest, i.e. are we going to grow Retail Banking and Wealth Management in Brazil, are we going to grow Commercial Banking in Turkey. We're going to run the process in a very disciplined way. And since there's 5 way we invest additional resources going forward, we'll follow a similar stringent framework assessing investment decisions on 3 dimensions: First of all, strategic. So every investment has to be aligned with our strategy, as most of our investments will be in the priority market, 2 home markets and the priority markets.
The investment has to be consistent with the risk appetite statement set by the board, and it has to create value for our shareholders. And as a very specific purpose, this is a bit of a complicated chart to try and show, that effectively, we're going to do a focused disciplined capital allocation with a focus lead from the center with effectively the group management board chaired by myself, in effect, acting as a CIO as well as the CEO, okay?
In essence, what happens is, we will deploy capital out, having approved at the group management board that we want to invest in Commercial Banking in Singapore, and actually Singapore at then of the year will pay a dividend back into the holding company. So we will take the capital out of the operating entities and clearly then reintroduce capital sufficient to meet regulatory requirements. What we won't enable countries to do is to sit with our own surplus capital and, therefore, effectively get back to the situation that we used to have which for example, today, explains why we're the second-biggest credit card issuer in the Philippines, because the CEO, 5 lots ago, like credit cards. Yes? That won't happen.
So effectively, capital will be allocated, RWAs will be allocated, profits will be taken out and then recycled back by Iain and his team in the most capital-efficient structure.
So therefore, at the center, where the HSBC Holdings box is, you, in essence, have the group management board and myself. Then clearly, at the center, we will also decide on what the distributions, which ultimately is a board decision, are made to the shareholders in the form of dividends or, indeed, in the forms of neutralizing the script dividend or further share buybacks. So this process is quite important, and this is a very significant slide. This matrix shows you where we believe we will allocate most of our risk-weighted asset growth over the next few years.
So first of all, 40% of it will be in Commercial Banking, going into the faster-growing regions. A huge chunk of it actually goes into Commercial Banking overall, so roughly 65% of the growth will go there. Then 15% to 20% will go into Retail Banking and Wealth Management in the faster-growing regions. So if you look at the term [ph] to access, the businesses that will pick up the biggest delta [ph] of our new RWA deployment created by surplus capital are Commercial Banking, in particular, in the faster-growing regions; Retail Banking and Wealth Management in the fast-growing regions; and by definition, in total, the faster-growing regions. So 70%, 75% will be going into the faster-growing regions, and 65% of that within which will be going into Commercial Banking. So actually, directionally, this is where we're going to force the skew and the change in the shape of the firm. And actually, if you look over the last several years, you can see that we have actually forced the start of that shift of the balance between developed markets and emerging markets.
Let me now go into specific global businesses. Commercial Banking is absolutely the jewel in the crown. The mission of this business, which I think is completely achievable, is to be the leading international trading business bank. We grew our share of our bank finance world trade, according to Oliver Wyman, to 11%. And we have a substantial, I think, competitive advantage given the focus on the city clusters I talked about and the countries that we're actually sitting in. This business's target is a 2.2% to 2.5% return on risk-weighted assets and is a very high entry level barrier to compete in this business for anyone to actually to get into this business.
I just want to talk about a couple of client examples to try and point out the difference for HSBC. So these are 3 client examples of how we can leverage our international network capability to support clients expanding their presence. Tangle Teezer started, clearly, first as a sponsor, started as a U.K. manufacturer of hairbrushes in 2005, according to the [indiscernible] times. We're supporting them since 2011 and supported their expansion to 60 overseas markets. So that's a U.K. to overseas trade example.
We're working with Luen Thai since the 1960s, when it was just a small Hong Kong trading company. And over the years, we supported its growth into a multinational group. It's active in manufacturing, services, hospitality and logistics in 17 countries, now with revenues of USD 1.5 billion. That's a Hong Kong to overseas example.
And then the last one, which is Hisense, is a leading Chinese home appliance manufacturer. Our relationship began as recently as 2004, and we're now banking them in Hong Kong, Singapore, U.S., Canada and South Africa and about to start banking them in Australia. So that's the PRC to overseas example.
So here are some examples of why clients choose HSBC. We have an international network, we're on the ground in their country, we have a local currency balance sheet, as well as an international capability, including we have the products and advisory capabilities.
The growth opportunities in Global Banking and Markets are equally significant. We're well positioned in several product areas. I think, we'll benefit from powerful global trends.
First of all, debt capital markets. The DCM business, you can actually already see this year in the developed world enormous jump in DCM activity, in DCM fees, because what's effectively happened, post-LTRO and the funding for lending scheme in the U.K., is that most banks can now access credit again. But actually, very few can access credit spreads that are tighter than weather and corporates can borrow. So therefore, that corporates insists remediating them and going to the bond market. Therefore, you benefit from this if you've got a big DCM platform. And actually, that's why there's been this big jump in both investment grade and high yield, yes, as they search for yield, but the phenomenon is more that if you're an Italian or a Spanish bank, yes, you can access the money markets again, but the price at which you can access it is generally higher than where your top-notch credits can borrow themselves. So they actually will go to the bond market. So if DCM platform becomes critical, we have a significant DCM platform, which is why so far this year, just a continuation from last year, we've had great results in DCM.
In project and export finance, you can see both in the developed world in the U.K., there's going to be considerable infrastructure expenditure eventually. And in the emerging markets, there already is considerable infrastructure expenditure. We have considerable expertise and the balance sheet size to participate in this. And the balance sheet size is important because it also explains why we increasingly have a strong position in the event financing in the emerging markets. It's a $2.7 trillion balance sheet, so we're one of the few banks who can actually simultaneously finance 3 or 4 deals at USD 10 billion a ticket. Because we can do that, we can now also lock in the advisory, whether that advisor is actually at a strategic level or it's at a financing and hedging level. That balance sheet heft [ph], in the past, was discounted because there were many banks who could do this. There are now not many banks that can do this in the geographies in which we actually left.
And also, we think that there's a significant opportunity for us as the RMB internationalizes. We clearly have an ambition to be the leading international bank in RMB, and we think that this is a significant opportunity not just in trade but, eventually, in payments and cash management and, indeed, in terms of foreign exchange.
Now we said for a long time that we have a distinctive business model, and generally, nobody believed us. But I think by this point in time, it's fairly clear that our Global Banking and Markets model is different than the Bulge Bracket Investment Banking model. It is based around foreign exchange, debt capital markets, payments and cash management, securities custody. It's quite unusual as well in the sense that, if you look at the last box, our mix of clients is actually pretty evenly corporate and financial institution. If you did this in most other banks, the financial institution and government number would be 80% to 90%. They will be dealing with insurance companies, banks, hedge funds and governments. The corporate sector is unusual. Probably if you did this for Citibank, it would have a similar set of numbers. But that corporate base is incredibly sticky, and that corporate base is the piece that we've grown our market share in over the last 2 or 3 years, as the large French and German banks had to pull back particularly from the emerging markets. And indeed, we've grown here in the U.K., as people like RBS have exited the markets business as well. So there's been a significant market share gain in this, and that's why we have this rather unusual kind of client mix. So it's quite a differentiated wholesale banking business model and should not be boxed with a Deutsche Bank, Barcap sort of a model at all.
And our areas of focus, combined with our mix of clients, I think, in short, we remain top ranked in our chosen key products. And the rankings, actually, with the footnotes is to where the rankings are from, are examples of the areas of focus are in the gray box on the right-hand side and show, actually, pretty dominant positions in the things that we've chosen to specialize in. So this is a business, actually, that has really now kind of come of age. And again, before the financial crisis back in 2006, we kind of made USD 5 billion, USD 6 billion a year in this. We now make USD 9 billion, USD 10 billion in this because we basically captured the market share of customer business.
And if I may, I can just give you a few Global Banking and Markets examples. What I would mention on these customer examples is all of these customers have given us permission and approval to use their data, which is also, by definition, a bit of an indication of the fact we do have really good relationships with them. So both the CMB clients and these guys have actually preapproved us using these examples today.
So each of these clients is a multinational, which we bank in between 20 and 29 different countries. All of them are headquartered in a developed country, but they have significant operations across the globe. Our global footprint means that we can provide support for these companies, both the headquarters and in the field. And the deep client partnerships that usually began decades ago, and actually in the case of Glaxo, over a century ago, we look to provide banking services to these clients across a range of products and around the globe, as is the case in AES. Specifically in Siemens, we've just developed an RMB trade settlement solution for them. We commit capital. For example, we were Joint Global Coordinator and Bookrunner for EDF's EUR 6.2 billion hybrid bond issuance. And in the case of both GlaxoSmithKline and, currently, Unilever, we're financing the increase of stake in their Indian subsidiary, Hindustan Unilever, in the case of Unilever, and Glaxo's deal earlier on. And the Unilever deal has a value of USD 5.4 billion. We're the only bank doing this.
So this again shows our ability to connect both our operation in India, our operation in Hong Kong, where, actually, the equity capital markets guys sit, and clearly, the coverage here in the U.K. So you can see in this, this is quite a unique business model, and the linkage pieces are starting to produce actually quite significant advantage to the group.
Now let me turn to the Retail Banking and Wealth Management. We're now targeting incremental wealth revenues of $3 billion by 2016. This is less than the original target, so let me explain why. We set $4 billion back in 2011. Actually, really, what's happened is that the Conduct Risk agenda and the customer redress risk has changed phenomenally in the meantime. So the Conduct Risk agenda of regulators effectively looking back 10 years and effectively looking at whether the banks explained all possible outcomes means that the type of wealth management products you can sell has to change. Secondly, the compensation structures that we had in place for wealth advisors have already changed from the start of this year. So we no longer have any commission-based people operating, selling wealth products anywhere. So therefore, we think it is actually part of, frankly, our Global Standards in de-risking to settle a more reasonable target for this opportunity. The opportunity is absolutely still there, but we think that, actually, $3 billion is an achievable target that won't expose the firm to undue conduct risk and, therefore, customer redress in due course.
The return on risk-weighted assets of this business both including the runoff portfolio actually, but excluding the runoff portfolios, is superb. What I would say, though, in answer to the question of why don't you put all of your risk-weighted assets into Retail Banking and Wealth Management, is the majority of the P&L is out of U.K. and Hong Kong. So it's a narrow geography with a sensational return. The fact is you couldn't deploy all the surface capital into these businesses. We have thought about that.
And then also in RBWM, we're investing in our digital capabilities. And here, you can see some examples of several new mobile and tablet tools. A new version of our banking app was launched in Hong Kong, in the U.S. and for first direct. And so you can now trade stocks and FX in Hong Kong right now, and that will be deployed across other markets throughout the year. We've also just taken on an individual from Google, who'll be joining us as Head of Digital for RBWM. Clearly, this is an area of expertise that we believe that is best populated by an outside hire.
In addition, we've also started to create some innovation centers within the group. Again, you would think that a large organization like this is lacking on innovation. But, of course, again, if you flip it around the other way, within a community of 250,000 people, you actually are going to find some pretty bright interesting people who are interested in this. And actually, therefore, we are actually being able better to identify that talent and bring it out and bring it forward. So there are some exciting things going on in this, which, of course, will also raise questions about our branch strategy going forward. The modest enough adoption of digital smartphones, et cetera, the less likely we are to need the entire branch networks that we have everywhere. People won't be banking by going into branches. Commercial Banking clients will be going into corporate centers. And actually, individuals will be mostly conducting their banking through a smart device of some sort. But that obviously has political difficulties in certain countries as you exit branches but also has a significant cost-saving opportunity. One of the things about a branch network, clearly, is you have a substantial sum of fixed costs that sits for any bank branch network.
Lastly, let me turn to Private Banking and the growth opportunities there. The Private Banking growth opportunities, it's very logical for us to have a private bank because we are sitting in places with fantastic wealth creation. But we clearly need to reform, as indeed, frankly, the industry does, the private banking model. And actually, specifically in HSBC's level, we need to move us to being much more in line to HSBC's strengths and its values and Global Standards. So what I mean by that -- and Peter Boyles is now running the Private Banking, and he's here and you can talk to him at the lunch -- is that we're going to fix the focus of the private bank towards the mission statement that's actually the top of this slide, and this is actually important.
So the private bank, in our view, should really be sourcing its customers from our Commercial Banking business. Our Private Banking customers should be the entrepreneur who sets up his business, we finance his trade, we eventually list him on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange or the São Paulo Stock Exchange, and that wealth event creates the private banking opportunity. You know the customer, your AML, your KYC has been in place for years and years and years. You want to capture that value chain. Therefore, we need to make some changes to our current private banking portfolio because the piece that we have in Hong Kong and Singapore and in London and in Miami and, actually, in New York fits that. The piece in Switzerland, which was the Republic National Bank of New York piece, doesn't necessarily fix that. So therefore, there'll be work here. But the key point is this is an important business. This has a reasonably high return on risk-weighted assets. We will stay in private banking, but we will need to change the shape of our Private Banking business, so it's absolutely lockstep with the rest of HSBC.
Now I want to turn to the second priority, which is implementing Global Standards. I actually believe that implementing Global Standards in the medium term will give us a distinct competitive advantage. You can see this as a significant cost increase in the cost base, which it is, and a significant exit of certain revenue streams, which it also is. But actually, those revenue streams and that cost base is preventing you having the size of customer redress and the size of fines that we, as a firm, have run into over the last several years.
So on the one hand, we probably have increased our run rate cost by USD 700 million, USD 800 million for compliance. And we estimate there's probably USD 800 million of revenue that we will forego as we exit certain activities. But we paid 4.6 -- USD 4.3 billion last year in customer redress and fines. So this is improving the quality of the PBT of HSBC. And I think it's very important that you're aware of why we're doing this.
So let me tell you how we're approaching this. Yes, we've said -- I've said earlier the purpose of the firm. This is very much integrated. This is not a separate project to the day-to-day running of the bank. We define the clear values of the firm. About 5,000 people have gone through values workshops, most of which were topped by how the business go. Actually, last year, we exited nearly 600 people from the organization for values-related breaches, so this is real. This is actually how we're managing the firm. And I think we've also been very successful at attracting and retaining talent. We've also put in place a significant structure of governance. Let me provide you on some detail as to, therefore, how Global Standards is executed. At the board level, Douglas has created a financial systems vulnerability committee, which is a new board committee of independent advisors, which provides governance, oversight and policy advice. This is populated by, actually, some of the leading figures, frankly, from law enforcement, which is clearly where we need to get to, to a future piece HSBC, from what's likely to be the next threat. And it may not be money laundering from drug cartels. It may be cyber terrorism or something similar.
We set up a Global Standards steering committee, which is part of the group management board, which is basically the most senior committee that I chair that runs the firm and sets the strategic direction as a priority. And there's, in essence, then, some execution committee, where the rubber hits the road. And then there's at least 3 significant programs which we're running on customer due diligence, financial crime and financial intelligence to better improve the situation that HSBC finds itself in. We operate in a complex set of countries. So therefore, we have to do this so that we can actually be on top of the risks that come to us as we drive this forward. And this is also resulted in the terms of changes to the day-to-day activities. As I said moments ago, we're actually completely in our Wealth Management business moved away from commission structures [ph], we're requiring higher qualifications from people, and we've absolutely now started a process of driving through review of all products to make sure that they fit the purpose and don't expose us to vulnerability.
So now I'm going to pass the presentation to Sean, who'll address the third big priority, which is streamlining the processes and procedures. Sean?
Sean P. O'Sullivan
Thank you. Well, thanks, Stuart, and good morning, everyone. So Stuart mentioned before that we've generated $4 billion of sustainable cost saves on an annualized basis across the 4 programs since the middle of 2011. So how have we done it?
Well, we've successfully implemented a number of initiatives, including people and structure, which has involved the restructuring of the group, as Stuart mentioned before, into the 4 global businesses and the 11 functions. So far, we've implemented the 8x8 delayering exercise across 54 markets across the group. Our delayering initiative has made a significant contribution to the sustainable saves objective. We're on track to exceed more than $1 billion of saves and reduce headcount by 10,000 as a result of this initiative.
Software development, where we've reduced overall software development headcount by 11%, increased the proportion of IT developers in low-cost locations from 47% to 54% and increased our overall developer profit productivity by 8%. So simply put, that means that we're doing -- create more lines of software code with fewer people at a lower average cost.
Now Stuart mentioned before that we're investing a lot in digital, and we've increased significantly that investment over the past 18 months. And at the start of that journey, we asked ourselves, frankly, do we have the capabilities to deliver efficiently and effectively? And the answer, to be honest, was no, not the way we were structured. We had our capabilities dispersed all around the world. So what we've done is we've put our key resources -- our key engineering resources for digital into 3 optimal locations around the group, and we're supplementing our capabilities with external firms with an expertise in the field.
Look at process optimization, where we've started to introduce production management tools and also progressed end-to-end process engineering initiatives in areas such as trade, call centers and payments areas. We've generated $300 million in sustainable saves almost from that area.
Implementing consistent business models, where we've implemented globally consistent productivity metrics in RBWM and CMB, that's allowed us to reduce headcount by almost 3,000 as a result of that initiative, in addition to what those businesses have achieved through the people and structure initiative.
Corporate Real Estate portfolio rationalization, here, we've reduced our overall business as usual, ongoing square foot requirements by 3.5 million square feet. So to put that in perspective, we've basically reduced 3x the size of this building. We've done it due to the headcount reductions and also by implementing consolidation, workplace activities, et cetera.
Now a significant amount of the sustainable saves has come from a holistic review of our external spend. As you can imagine, we spend a lot of money externally. And we've implemented tighter management control over external vendors, and we've taken a deep review of how we spend our money and what we spend it on. So, so far, we've delivered more than $450 million of sustainable saves as a result of this initiative, but I should point out that some of those numbers are included in the numbers you see on the slide.
Now if you look at what we've achieved, we have put in place the global structure. So we've moved from a fragmented business to a cohesive portfolio of businesses; from a complex and inconsistent management structure to a consistent streamlined structure across the group; from a federated and functional business model to a global model.
However, while we've changed the management structure and we've implemented and basically designed the target operating models, there's just a huge amount of opportunity to simplify, streamline and globalize the on-the-ground processes and practices that go on across the group.
So let me give you a few examples of that. So around the group, we've produced more than 4,000 management information reports. A significant number would have overlapping info in them, and it takes tons of people to manually intervene to get the work done. We currently spend $500 million a year on 1,100 vendors who provide facilities management services, such as cleaning and maintenance. In terms of globalizing, we have 57 different versions of personal Internet banking. We have -- we had 46 versions of business Internet banking until we happily retired 12 of them over the past year. There are multiple ways of opening up an account -- a corporate account across HSBC, and the unit cost variance between the best country and the worst country is more than 13x. I could go on and on, but I hope you see the opportunity.
Now as Stuart mentioned before, the banking industry is not unique and having to respond to transformational changes in its operating environment. If you look at other industries, as you can see on the slide, telecoms, automotive, et cetera, they face similar shocks and have had to restore profitability through rigorous cost discipline and productivity improvements. So we at HSBC are leveraging front to back industrial engineering methodologies deployed successfully in these other industries to simplify, streamline and globalize our processes to reduce costs but also make it easier to do business for our customers and for our colleagues. I've challenged our COOs across HSBC to start to think more like vice presidents of manufacturing. Our head of operations is an industrial engineer. His first job was in a plastics manufacturing company.
Let me give you an example, and it's a mortgage process globalization, which we started in the U.K. We completely redesigned the mortgage process, leveraging customer insight, technology and business process engineering. We've delivered live underwriting, enabling referred customers to get an instant credit decision, whether it be in the branch or on the phone. We've provided an online application and swifter process, which has supported incremental lending, incremental lending of over $1 billion. And we've created a modern, efficient and effective back office, way less paper than we had before.
So what's the result? The result has been the customer experience has significantly improved. Back office costs are down by 30%, notwithstanding the fact that we've increased new business volumes by 25%. This has enabled us in our -- in the U.K. to increase our market share in mortgages from 2% to 12% and more than double our mortgage income since 2007.
In China now, we're leveraging the U.K. experience, and we expect to roll this out to other priority markets, such as Brazil and France, in 2013 and beyond.
Now our plan is to streamline, globalize and simplify our operational practices and processes to generate a further $2 billion to $3 billion in sustainable saves between 2014 and 2016. So to clarify, we're planning incremental sustainable saves during 2013 that get us to $4 billion on a P&L basis by the end of the year. Now some of you have analyzed that and basically taken it to $4.5 billion, $4.6 billion, and that's probably reasonably accurate. So $4 billion on a P&L basis by the end of 2013, plus an incremental $2 billion to $3 billion, so at the top end, as Stuart says -- Stuart said, $7 billion.
Now over the medium term, we anticipate our overall headcount as a firm, based on our current business scope, would gradually bottom out between 240,000 and 250,000 because we'll be reinvesting our sustainable savings to support investment in organic growth and investment in the Global Standards initiative. So to clarify on that, again, that 240,000 to 250,000 number is an estimate considering the medium-term impact of known disposals, estimated role reductions and investments in new roles. Okay?
We have a robust pipeline to take us and hopefully achieve the next target. So let me provide a few examples. I mentioned management information before through an initiative called MI simplification. We are implementing a standard finance operating model across the group to centralize, standardize and rationalize MI production and deliver $75 million of sustainable saves. We've recently signed a 5-year facilities management contract with 1 vendor, which is replacing 1,100 suppliers, will save us $50 million a year and takeout a whole bunch of complexity.
The United States is a key part of our transformation. Stuart has spoken about our plans to grow revenue in the U.S. Let me speak about our plans regarding the infrastructure. In this area, we have 3 key strategic priorities.
One, remediate the identified control deficiencies and improve the risk management infrastructure, creating an improved compliance infrastructure that consistently meets regulatory expectations.
Two, disposals and rundown. Manage the transitional service agreements to conclusion, progress the CML business rundown with responsible ethical collections and customer service, potentially accelerate the wind down through the portfolio sales as market conditions improve.
And finally, three, core bank business engineering. We are executing a transformation plan in the U.S. focused on streamline and simplifying our IT environment, the operations environment and the global functions. At the same time, we intend to enhance our risk and compliance areas and improve efficiency and effectiveness. The plan also involves the replacement of our overly complex systems environment in the U.S. with the group's core banking platform.
So if you look at the U.S. in terms of infrastructure, core bank reengineering, TSA [ph] exits and portfolio reductions should enable us to reduce U.S. costs by roughly $800 million between now and 2016 and reduce our cost efficiency ratio in the U.S. to the mid-60s, which is comparable to other banks in the U.S.A.
Now in terms of globalizing, we've got a number of initiatives focused on standardizing the way we do things. So we're implementing a number of front to back RBWM reengineering programs, which are expected to generate a further $500 million of sustainable cost saves between 2014 and 2016. So for example, if we're going to deploy the reengineering approach that I mentioned before with respect to mortgages to other products, such as personal lending and wealth products. We're deploying scanning and imaging technology and leveraging the digital enhancements that we talked about before to improve straight-through processing for our customers and for our back offices, and that will help us reduce paper. And by the way, just for your information, last year alone at HSBC, we reduced our paper consumption, excluding the impact of disposals, by more than 20%. More to do.
We're deploying Global Standards in areas such as customer due diligence and payment screening to enhance the consistency of our customer offerings, improve our overall financial crime compliance and increase efficiency. I don't see the global standards initiative as being inconsistent with improving the operational capability of the company. I see it absolutely aligned.
And finally, in 2012 -- my last example, in 2012, we spent about $1 billion managing documents, cash and checks in multiple different ways across the group. We're implementing a globally consistent approach to managing these activities as we speak, and we expect to generate $100 million in sustainable cost saves from doing that between now and 2015.
So in summary, we've exceeded the sustainable saves target between $2.5 billion to $3.5 billion, where there is a significant opportunity for us to do more, we've got a world-class plan to deliver and some really good initiatives to back up the plan.
Thanks very much, and I'll pass it now over to Iain to talk about the financial targets.
Iain James MacKay
So keeping the temperature nice and warm in this room hasn't worked because you're still awake, which is clear, we really have interesting presentations here. We're going well. Right, this is the bet that none of you are really that interested in. We'll go through our soldiers to push through the financial targets.
Few key things here. In 2011 and 2012, we committed to 2 targets, in capital and liquidity and the profitability and cost efficiency of the firm. There's absolutely no change in that regard. That's what we're going to do for the remainder of 2013 and '14 through '16 as well. We have made a couple changes to this, so I'll briefly cover these just now, and then we'll go into a bit more detail on each of the key metrics here.
First change were in the cost efficiency ratio. We've altered the emphasis here to one of positive Jaws as opposed to an absolute range or in the cost efficiency ratio. This is really to strike a more appropriate balance around the need to recognize change changes within the environment from an economic standpoint, from a revenue standpoint, which are somewhat out of our control, while maintaining a clear discipline and cost management and the need to continue to invest in the core capabilities and the growth of the business. And from our experience, certainly, with the couple of years of working through this, maintaining a positive Jaws, growing revenues at a rate faster than that, which would grow costs, clearly continues to move us progressively towards a better cost efficiency ratio than we certainly experienced over the last couple of years. And we saw improvement in that in the first of this year, but we'll continue that momentum of moving the cost efficiency ratio in the right direction over '14 to '16. So this is the first key change.
Now that being said, we're not going to abandon the cost efficiency ratio. This is something that we monitor very closely. And setting out a range that strikes middle-50s, and I'm sure I'll get lots of questions about what this middle-50s mean. It means middle-50s, so if you keep asking the question, that's the answer you're going to get. I'm just trying to keep that short.
So from that standpoint, the positive Jaws will move us to a better cost efficiency ratio over time whilst, at the time, striking that balance. This doesn't mean we're just deemphasizing cost discipline. As Sean just said, $2 billion to $3 billion more of sustainable saves over the next few years. The pipeline around our propensity to do that is strong, and I think what we've demonstrated over the last couple of years is our ability to deliver against that. So positive Jaws and continue to keep a close eye on monitoring where we are from a cost efficiency ratio perspective.
Second change we'd talk about is really just a fairly subtle change in the capital ratio, the common equity tier 1 ratio for the firm, where we'll move this to be greater than 10% over the coming few years. I think what we see is we've got a better understanding of where we need to be from a Basel III perspective against CRD IV. The final technical guidance around that is not complete yet. We should hopefully have that at the beginning of the second half of this year. But based on what we understand and really everything that we talk about here in capital is informed by, really, the version of CRD IV that came out in July of 2011 and any further clarifications we've got from working with the PRA.
But greater than 10%, I think, puts us in a well-capitalized position. And certainly, when you see where we were at the end of the first quarter, taking into account the management actions based on our current understanding of the rules, we're in good shape against that. I think that positions us as a very strongly capitalized institution. And then when you reflect on our capital-generating ability, it gives us propensity to take actions in certain other areas.
Taking these factors into consideration, we keep the costs -- the return on equity very much focused on 12% to 15%.
Thinking about the efficiency aspect of this now, the cost efficiency, we've clearly demonstrated our ability to drive sustainable saves. There's been great execution around the lengthy pipeline of projects that's delivered annualized cost savings of nearly $4 billion. But what we talked about at the beginning of 2011, really, if you like the origins of the need to drive that sustainable saves was to create capacity to invest in our businesses around the operating capabilities, the growth of the businesses, and to deal with headwinds from the ever-present inflation across the many markets in which we operate.
In 2012, we invested much of the sustainable saves that we generated in that year, investments in compliance and infrastructure and investment in growth. Over the course of that, we invested about $1.3 billion in growth infrastructure and compliance programs. Really, from a compliance investments perspective, our focus was primarily in the U.S. and in Mexico, but it also supported the launch of our Global Standards program globally. In terms of other projects where we saw investment, it was around addressing real estate streamlining and other infrastructure projects, and Sean had highlighted some of those. And those were primarily oriented in the U.S., Europe and Asia.
In terms of supporting the reshaping of the portfolio, there were significant investments around developing transition support agreements. The most significant, perhaps, of which was transitioning the ownership of our cards and retail services businesses to Cap One, which is a 2-year commitment, which we are now halfway through and online to complete. But there's a significant investment in these TSA programs, and we have more than a couple hundred of these agreements in place. And the investment associated with ensuring that these transitions are conducted efficiently, effectively and completed is an important part of what we've invested effort and resources in.
Another aspect, which we've -- which Stuart touched in earlier, was making sure that where we do acquisitions, that we get the integration right the first time and get it right quickly. And not an insignificant amount of resources were focused on 2 relatively small acquisitions and mergers that we did in the Middle East and North Africa during 2012.
I think the other thing to take away from this, and we've talked about it, is 2012 was significantly impacted by the fines and penalties that we incurred over the course of the year, as well as customer redress mainly in the United Kingdom. So the construct around driving sustainable saves hasn't really changed: It is about funding the capacity for growth within the business, it is about dealing with inflationary headwinds, and it's about creating the operational capacities and capabilities that we need within this firm going forward.
A little bit more around the balance on positive Jaws here and why we think this is a sensible transition. This is largely informed about what we've learned over the course of the last 2 years, again, about striking the right balance between investing in the capabilities of our businesses whilst maintaining a very strong discipline within the firm. And I think this comes down to an operational level, and it's very easy for people to grasp. But if we're having challenges in any of our markets around the world in growing and driving growth within the business, then we need to have a reflex on the costs within the business. You can't just simply go, my goodness, we're not getting growth out of this without looking at the overall profitability equation and addressing costs in a serious manner, and that's what Jaws really entrains, revenue growth, cost growth at a low -