JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE:JPM)
February 28, 2012 8:30 am ET
Executives
Sarah Youngwood -
Douglas L. Braunstein - Chief Financial Officer
Frank Bisignano - Chief Administrative Officer, Chief Executive Officer of Mortgage Banking and Member of Operating Committee
Ina R. Drew - Chief Investment officer and Member of Operating Committee
S. Todd Maclin - Former Chief Executive Officer of Commercial Banking and Member of Operating Committee
Ryan McInerney -
Unknown Executive -
Gordon A. Smith - Chief Executive Officer of Chase Card Services and Auto Lending and Member of Operating Committee
Douglas B. Petno -
Michael J. Cavanagh - Chief Executive Officer of Treasury and Securities Services Business and Member of Operating Committee
Mary Callahan Erdoes - Chief Executive officer of Asset & Wealth Management and Member of Operating Committee
James E. Staley - Chief Executive Officer of J P Morgan Investment Bank and Member of Operating Committee
James Dimon - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Member of Executive Committee, Member of Operating Committee and Member of Stock Committee
Analysts
Guy Moszkowski - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division
Unknown Analyst
Michael Mayo - Credit Agricole Securities (NYSE:USA) Inc., Research Division
Betsy Graseck - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Sarah Youngwood
A few announcements. Please turn off your cell phones. If you have a question, please wait for the mic because we have people on the webcast. And last, please look at the forward-looking statements disclosure in your materials. With that, I'll turn it to Doug.
Douglas L. Braunstein
So good morning, everyone. I want to thank Sarah for reminding you about the forward-looking statements, otherwise, I've got hoard of lawyers that will come after me afterwards. So I'm going to kick off Investor Day with a number of topics. I'm going to do a little deeper dive on some of the key components for our 2011 performance. Second, I'm going to cover 3 specific risk questions related to the investor questions that we received from you. And then finally, I'm going to talk about capital, how we allocate capital through the LOBs, the return expectations that we have and what that implies in terms of future earnings performance, and then a little bit about the CCAR process.
So with that, just a quick reminder on Page 3, 3 circled numbers. We generated $19 billion in net income last year. That was a record for JPMorgan Chase. We returned a 15% return on tangible common equity. That is best-in-class for the large-cap domestic peer set. And we ended the year with 7.9% Tier 1 Basel III common. We're going to come back to that when we talk about capital.
If you put 2011 into the context of our performance over the last 5 years, I thought it'd be helpful on Page 3 to focus on tangible book value. So a few numbers to highlight from this page. We added $60 billion to our tangible common equity over the last 5 years. That's a 12% compound annual growth rate. That's moving from about $19 per share in tangible book value in 2006 to ending the year a little under $34 a share. That's up 74% over that period of time. Now in addition to that, we added approximately $30 billion to reserves, that's loan loss reserves, repurchase reserves, as well as litigation reserves during that period of time. We also, as you know, returned $13.5 billion to our shareholders in the course of 2011. And I highlight one other number in the upper right, which is an addition of tangible book value, our 5- and our 10-year compound annual growth rates or earnings per share were best-in-class amongst the peers set.
So the other way to think about it is how do you evaluate these returns over time on the assets we deploy. And so on Page 4, I'm looking at our asset returns across the platform here, and there were really 3 measurements. The first one is return on assets. And a number of you in the audience, a number of our competitors, generally comment and compare us on this analysis. We don't really believe this is a good measure in large part because we've got very different businesses with very different assets particularly assets in the Investment Bank, so you've got a large repo book, which is low risk and low yield.
So if you look to the bottom right, remember that we've got a 50%-50% distribution between our Wholesale and our Consumer businesses, as well as NII and NIR. And so for us, the focus is really on the bottom 2. Return on Basel I risk-weighted assets today for a better comparison across peers. And if you look there, we were up 60 basis points in the last 2 years, that is best-in-class in the peer set. And the other way to think about it is an adjusted return, and that's effectively NII, NIR, minus net charge-offs, and comparing that across our risk-weighted assets. And again, we made the same consistent improvement, and you also see we're best-in-class-in our large peer set on that performance.
So with best-in-class performance on EPS growth, $60 billion of tangible book value being built over the period of time, best-in-class return on our risk-weighted assets, how do you deliver on all that? I thought I'd spend the moment highlighting what each of my partners is going to talk about. I'm going to talk a little bit about the accomplishments for the franchise, how we're focused on the consumer and how we cross-sell across the franchise in the next 3 pages.
So on this page, really just focusing in on market share revenue and some key growth statistics on Page 5. I'll just comment on a few. In the Investment Bank, fixed income is up almost twofold during that 5-year period of time. We have market-leading performance at fixed income in 2011. The Commercial Bank, average liabilities up more than 2x over the period of time. In TSS, assets under custody, up $3 trillion. Asset Management, $300 billion worth of assets under management, 2x the number of private bankers in this period of time. CBB, up 14% compound annual growth rate in deposits, $170 billion worth of increase, $60 billion increase in investments under management. Mortgage Banking, a two-fold increase in market share, 3x the number of bankers in the branch. Card, spending up $100 billion; market share, up 3.6%. So if you step back from that and you ask how we generated those market share performance returns, you really have to focus on Page 6, which is really a view from the customers. So what we got here is a number of external and internal metrics that talk about the voice of the customer, and how we've done. I'm not going to go through all these, but I will ask you, if you scan down the Consumer businesses in blue, you're going to see real improvements in our JD Power rankings over the course of last year, our customer satisfaction scores over the -- last year, reduced consumer complaints. And really it is both in our wholesale and our retail organization focusing in on customer, listening to the voice of the customer, providing them quality products and services, and that's driving our performance.
The other component of driving our performance, to those that ask what's the value of the whole? And what we've got here on Page 7 is some select examples, each of my partners is going to talk in detail, about the benefits of being part of this larger franchise, but it is clearly to us a competitive advantage relative to the monoline competitors, and it is helping drive top line growth. So I'll pick 2 examples from this list.
In the IB and CB, we have a partnership for Investment Banking revenues. That number has gone from $700 million 5 years ago to $1.4 billion this year, and that's basically helped the Investment Bank secure our #1 market share in ease over the last 3 years consecutively. The second I focus in is on leveraging the branch network. 45% of the Chase branded cards are sold through the branch network, 50% of retail mortgages are sold through the branch network, and there's a host of benefit to Asset Management and the Commercial Bank through the branches. So all of my partners will focus on that.
I'm going to dive a little deeper into revenue. And on Page 8, last year we showed you a slide on International. We told you this is a focused growth for us, and so we want to keep you posted on our performance. A reminder, our International businesses is almost exclusively our Wholesale businesses. And if you look at the data on this page, you'll see wholesale revenue is up about $3 billion to $25 billion in 2011, about 2/3 of that number comes from EMEA and about 1/2 of that number comes from the Investment Bank. And we've highlighted at the bottom a number of key metrics in the region.
First, you see 5-year compound annual growth rates for all the regions. They are up significantly, 11%, Latin America; 7% in EMEA; 13% in Asia Pacific over the 5 years. You see very significant loan growth in all of the regions. And you see expanded footprint. We opened 9 branches last year, 24 branches in the last 2 years. We're going to continue to invest in International during the course of '12 and beyond. We think it's a very significant growth opportunity for us.
The other driver of growth will be loans. And so on Page 9, we've got a little different look at our loan portfolio. You'll see there are 2-circled numbers on the page at the top. Total loans grew by 4% last year. And on the right, we have a definition of core loans that grew at 14%. So what's the difference between those 2? We began 2011 with approximately $216 billion from what we classify as run-off portfolio loan. Those are primarily loans related for the Washington Mutual acquisition, discontinuation of a number of products that are no longer offered to our customers. That portfolio declined by $36 billion or 16% last year.
Core loan growth on the right was up 14%, actually 25% in the Wholesale businesses, and a number of my partners are going to dive deeper into this. Doug Petno is going to do particularly deep detailed analysis of what's happening in the Commercial Bank loan portfolio and the performance we experienced in 2011.
So I want to spend another moment on the run-off portfolio just to give you a little better understanding of the impact of that. It, obviously, is the drag on NII. On Page 10, what we've done is give you a simulation of what the full impact is for the run-off portfolio. So if you look forward to 2012 and beyond, we've got approximately $25 billion, plus or minus, of that portfolio running off annually. It's mostly in the mortgage bank, but not exclusively there. And you see net interest income expected in 2012 from that run-off to be down $1 billion, about 1/2 of that is in the mortgage bank.
Now when you adjust for expenses and the net charge-offs, you'll see the net income line, we actually lose money on this run-off portfolio. That shouldn't be a surprise to all of you. But the other component is we reduced our capital balances, and we're liberating from this portfolio approximately $2 billion in capital per year. So when you net all of that, and you look over to the right, on a pro forma basis, if you added up the pluses and the minuses, you basically include our return on tangible common equity a little less than 1% as a result of that run-off portfolio.
So with that, I want to spend a quick moment on credit before I leave the loan portfolio. So Page 11 is really a picture of where we ended the year from a credit quality standpoint, and we've taken liberties comparing to some of our peers. So you're seeing net charge-offs on the page down 50% from the peak in 2010. Nonperforming loans down a little under 45% from the peak in 2009. Loan loss reserves to net charge-offs, 240%, that's stronger than all of our other large-cap peers. And our loan loss coverage ratio, loan loss reserve to NPLs is 280%.
On the right chart, we basically show what the loan loss reductions are relative to net charge-offs in 2011. So the way to read the chart is basically for every dollar of net charge-offs reduction, we released $0.40 in reserves. So the lower the number, the more conservative the reserve release approach, and you see our peers there as well.
The final note, just to reiterate something we've been saying, is as we go through the cycle in terms of charge-offs, we would expect our loan loss reserves to normalize at about $15 billion, plus or minus. That ultimately means $10-plus billion will have to be released and put back into capital.
So with that, I want to shift to the liability side of the house. Deposits were up $200 billion year-on-year to $1.1 trillion on Page 12. Core deposit taking business is all set record at the end of 2011, and the cost of deposits you see here declined by 7 basis points. Now this is on interest-bearing deposits only. Some of our competitors actually report total loan deposit basis for cost. And if you did that to us, it will be 30 basis points in aggregate.
For comparison in the CBB, deposit costs for the fourth quarter were 26 basis points, and that would be in line with best-in-class competitors who tend to compare us to them. We're also, I will say, being cautious about the tenor of the growth in certain of our wholesale deposits. We believe approximately $75 billion, plus or minus, to be considered flight-to-quality deposit from this portfolio. They're less sticky in a more robust environment, which we all hope for. But having said that, it impacts our reinvestment opportunities. The result is it reduces NIM, and you see that on Page 13.
So I'm going to talk a little bit about NIM and NII. So I talked a little bit about runoff, mix change, the flight-to-quality, obviously, the low-rate environment. All of that has resulted in $3 billion decline, plus or minus, in our NII for 2011. NIM also declined 32 basis points to $2.74. And there are 2 key takeaways I want you to take in to 2012. The first one is you do expect that those market conditions, the mix issues, I just talked about, that flight-to-quality and the rate environment, is you're going to continue to have NIM under pressure for 2012. It is also going to continue to pressure NII. And for example, we've identified $400 million of net income on the impact in CBB just from this decline in spread in the course of 2012. The second takeaway is we remain positioned for a rising rate environment. So on the right, we basically see a chart that reads, from the middle, that if yields move by 100 basis points, we'll generate $2.3 billion in incremental pretax income.
The other NIM page we've added to our disclosure, so you'll see this in the 10-K, I believe tomorrow, is on Page 14, our core net interest margin. So a number of you have asked for a little more detail, and this is basically it, which it excludes the Investment Bank trading assets and the long-term debt and equity that we allocated in the Investment Bank. We think it's a better peer comparison, but it is still going to be impacted by mix of business, right, so accretable yield, the foreign versus domestic, those some type of things that are differ from companies-to-companies, but you see our core NIM measurement in the fourth quarter with a little under 320 and this number as well will be under pressure in 2012.
I want to spend a couple of moments on expenses on Page 15. You see firm-wide adjusted expense was up $4 billion in 2011 to $49 billion, and there's a footnote describing what adjusted expenses are. $2.7 billion of that change is identified in the chart here. Higher mortgage servicing expense, Frank is going to talk about that; higher FDIC assessments; higher marketing expense, Gordon is going to talk about that; and higher expenses associated with commodities, and Jeff is going to talk about that. $1.2 billion was primarily related to headcount from growth initiatives. I'm going to talk about that on the next page.
But a moment on 2012. We expect adjusted expenses for 2012 to remain flat. And what does that mean? We're going to continue to invest in a whole host of growth initiatives, which are identified on this page and on the next. And that means we're going to generate efficiencies in order to hold our expenses constant but facilitate the growth that we expect to fund in the course of 2012.
A number of you have asked to provide a little bit more detail on that growth trend, and so we've added Page 16, which is really the examples of the LOB initiatives for growth in revenue. And there's a number of other, obviously, initiatives around efficiency. For the first set of numbers on the left, which adds to $1.9 billion, are just the specific expenses incurred in 2011. They're included in the $49 billion of adjusted expenses I just talked about on the previous page, and they're additive during the course of that year.
Now for many of these investments, revenue lags the spend, so you didn't see a lot of revenue associated with these investments. But on the right, what we've tried to do is give you the cumulative impact of not only '11 spend but the spend we've made over '08, '09 and '10, and we'll make in '12 and what the associated net income growth potential is for those investments on the right.
So for example in GCB, we think the spend we've made in '11 and the prior years and we'll make in '12 and '13 results in an estimated $600 million potential add to net income over the course of time, and Mike is going to talk about that. All of these investments, we believe, are accretive to earnings, ROE over the investment horizon. But the fact of the matter is they have reduced our margins in our businesses in 2011.
So with that on expenses, I want to cover 3 risk questions. The first one on Page 18, which is our European exposure. Just a reminder, everybody, before we go through the numbers, these are customers we deal with. They've been long-standing relationships with the bank. We continue to be very active with them. In fact, we think we've picked up market share in much of Europe during the course of this year. The other factor I'd add, since we discussed this at year end, the risk of loss we believe has declined, although it still clearly exist. But the impact of the LTRO, as well as the number of Eurozone actions, at least reduced the probability for now.
In aggregate, our exposure to the Euro 5 is $15 billion. That's down modestly from year end. More than 1/2 of it you see is from traditional credit products. These are principally the -- to nonfinancial institutions, to corporates spread out amongst the number of geographies and industries. Our trading and securities position, if you total it up, it's $19.4 billion, net of collateral and hedging. It's a little under $7 billion. More than 98% of the collateral is cash. And the protection that we brought on the hedging side is largely from investment-grade credit outside of the region. We continue to guide you in a downside scenario. We could lose $5 billion pretax, $3 billion after tax. We're also going to add some incremental disclosure in the 10-K in related to those Euro 5, as well as our other sovereign disclosure, and you'll see that come out tomorrow.
Page 19, literally just a moment on the DOJ Attorney General mortgage settlement. Frank is going to cover the impact to the business and our customers. But from a financial point of view, I wanted to remind you what we provided in our 8-K, which is we don't expect this to have a material impact on our earnings. And that's largely based on the reserve actions that we took during the course of 2011, then maybe modest movements in geographies but not a material impact to earnings.
Page 20 is private label securitization. So this is our exposure to $470 billion approximately, a private label origination. It's from 3-heritage organizations: WaMu, Bear Stearns and Chase. Roughly 1/3 for each of those heritage organizations. Now the 1/3, that's related to WaMu. We do not believe we have repurchased risk for, that as a matter of contract. And on the securities liability side, that has been left at the WaMu subsidiary. So if you take that 1/3 out, you got about $300 billion, plus or minus, in securities that are heritage, Bear and Chase. And there are basically 2 types of claims: Securities claims meaning investors saying we made misleading statements in the prospectus; and repurchase claims, which are responsibility to repurchase loans that are nonconforming with securities. We have $50 billion of securities claims against that $300 billion today. We also have a claim to investigate repurchase of alleged servicing problems for $175 billion of that $300 billion, and that's in the same group that proposed the settlement with Bank of America. We believe, basically, these claims overlap. They're largely related to the same underlying loans, in the same underlying economics, and we do not intend to pay twice for those claims.
Now a number of the analysts in the room have created estimates. The median is $6.5 billion for this liability. There's a low of $3 billion, there's a high of $18 billion. Relative to what we know, we think we're well reserved for this exposure to both of the type of claims we think will come through litigation. But it is going to be a long and a tough process, and we are completely geared up to grind it out through litigation for these liabilities.
So with that, I'm going to turn to Page 22 and talk a little bit about capital and performance and allocation. So Page 22, this is our allocation of the firm's capital for each of the various lines of business. We've provided a little bit more detail here for those that are -- have been asking for it. A number of observations. The first one is this reflects -- the allocations for 2012 reflect full Basel III capital assessment, the RWA associated with it, as well as what we expect to be the pure levels of capital. We incorporate growth and balances over the near term. It incorporates balance runoff, as well as some of the model enhancing as we think we're going to do with the business.
We're targeting 9.5% at the parent level. You see that at the bottom right. The Wholesale businesses are between 9% and 9.5%. The consumer side are between $8 million and $9 million. We think that's going to be consistent with where the peers are, and people are going to tend towards the upper end of the range. And you also see unallocated capital is down materially at the Corporate level. There is a large allocation of capital to CIO Treasury and Corporate, that is delivering very low yields in aggregate.
The last number I want to focus on this page is the circled return on tangible common equity. We think through the cycle, that should be 15%, plus or minus for the firm, and that's at the full 15% buffer level.
Page 23, we've also seen before, we've done this the last 2 years. It's our capital allocation. The returns for each of the lines of business, and all of my partners will talk through their respective returns. If you multiple the 2 together and you add up to what were the excepted earnings at through-the-cycle returns of about $24 billion, plus or minus. The difference in the last 2 years is in 2009, when we showed you this chart, our reported income was $12 billion. Our reported income in 2011 was $19 billion, so we're at least closing that gap.
On 24, I thought I'd walk you through -- a little different perspective on the $24 billion, which is sort of an earnings walk from where we were in 2011 and how we might look getting to 2000-and-whatever for $24 billion. The $19 billion start, you subtract the DVA, which was at $1 billion, and you get earnings of $18 billion at the beginning of this year. And then we adjust net income by 5 large items. And all of that analysis is now done on a net income basis, and we've tax-effect the expenses.
The first and the largest is the mortgage normalization, and Frank is going to walk you through some of the details. $3.5 billion of impact on a net income basis from mortgage foreclosure costs, the reserve, excess reserves or excess servicing costs and the revaluation, closed asset expense, and that's netted against normalizing our production revenues to a more normal rate environment. The impact of that is $3.5 billion to the bottom line over time. We eliminate $2 billion of net income impact for corporate litigation. Eventually, we will be fully reserved for those activities.
Credit gets normalized. The net effect of that is actually neutral on the 2011 performance, meaning as we go through the cycle net charge-offs, we eliminate the reserve releases, which we experienced and those 2, in 2011, effectively netted against each other. And then last is just the full year impact for Durbin, which is about $500 million on the net income line at the margin. That results in $23 billion worth of earnings if you add all of that up. And then there's a list for the growth opportunities. And remember back on Page 16, the potential net income, we've got to generate basically up $1 billion of incremental earnings from those growth initiatives.
The other page to refer to is the NII page in a more normalized rate environment. Remember, 100 basis points equals $2.3 billion of pretax income, and that's the opportunity set relative to earnings. Hopefully, you all found that helpful.
I'm going to spend the last couple of minutes on capital planning, Page 25. You've seen our capital hierarchy before. It's not changed, but we are now making clear we expect to get to a 30% dividend payout ratio on normalized earnings. That is a priority for us over time. But after we fund for our growth initiatives that we talked about, that still leaves a substantial amount of excess capital. We can deploy that for acquisitions. I'll say, it is reasonably unlikely in the current regulatory environment in the near term. And so that leaves repurchases, and at a price range relative to book value, that can be a very attractive alternative, we think, for our shareholders over the long run. And so we've made our CCAR submission basically consistent with the hierarchy I just talked about. You're familiar with the CCAR process. We're going to hear on March 15. The Fed is basically going to evaluate under 3 criteria. The first one is, stress for Basel I. Can you basically afford to return the capital that you're requesting? And they're going to evaluate that relative to our 5% Tier 1 common Basel I ratio. Second, under the Basel III. On a baseline scenario, do you have a trajectory to get to your end point? For us, 9.5% by January, 1, 2019. And then the third is if you have the right processes, system controls, governance in place, you'll be comfortable, if you're the Fed, with the answers to questions #1 and #2.
I thought it would be helpful to use the analyst estimates and our own adjustments to do a simulation for you. So on Page 26, and I would caution you all not to try to do this at home. So if you use analyst estimates for base-case earnings and for dividend, you neutralize for employee issuance, meaning we repurchase as many shares as we issue as relative to compensation. And then you stress the earnings. You see a chart on the right. That basically suggests an 8.8% Tier 1 Basel I common ratio in 2012 under stressed well above the 5% minimum. Now remember the Fed requires you, we would not do this, but we were under stressed scenario, and remember stressed is 8% GDP decline, 13% unemployment, 50% decline in S&P, 20% decline in HPI, a full-blown Eurozone crisis, but you still have to repurchase all your shares. So if you did that, assuming the $9 billion share repurchase we used in 2011, we would end our stressed Tier 1 common ratio approximately 8%, plus or minus. And that would be approximately $35 billion in capital in excess of the 5% minimum.
The other cautionary note here is, remember, the Fed is going to have a different view than the analyst and us on what the revenue expense and stress results were likely to be. But we did give you some sense of the room for margin, if you will.
On Page 27, talk a little bit about the glide path on RWA for the baseline. So on the left, we have our Basel I to Basel III approximately $320 billion more of our RWA. And on the right, we give you a simulation of what the runoff might be for JPMorgan Chase, approximately $100 billion in RWA in the next 2 years, and that's really runoff of the existing portfolio. That's the principal activity.
Model update. Some very, very modest litigation impact in the Investment Bank, and that's offset by growth that we're going to experience in RWA over a period of time. And so you see us ending 2013 with $1.440 trillion in RWA. If you take that RWA, the base-case analyst estimates, and you turn to Page 28, we're providing you with basically 2 views on achieving the 9.5% Tier 1 common Basel III.
On the left is the glide path equal improvement over the next 7 periods to get the January 2019 9.5%, about 200 -- it's about 25 basis points a year. And you would see excess capital to deploy unit per dividend, share repurchase or acquisitions of between $21 billion and $22 billion. On the right, it's an accelerated version. That is you get the 9.5% by 2013. And that shows, based on this estimate, $13 billion to $14 billion per annum in capital deployment. We shared with you at the end of the year, we're going to focus on moving the company, on a Basel III basis, to 9.5% by the end of 2013 with the right side of the page.
With that, I wanted to just close by, at least, highlighting for you the themes that you'll likely to hear from my partners during the course of the day. I'm going to let you read them quickly. But I'll remind you from a capital standpoint, what we just shared with you in terms of the fortress balance sheet, it really does afford us the opportunity to be a source of strength to our clients and are customer-focused. It affords us the opportunity to continue to invest in organic growth to drive the top line over time. And it does allow us the opportunity to return a substantial amount of excess capital for the shareholders. So I hope you enjoy the rest of the day.
I'm going to ask my partner, Frank Bisignano to come up, and I'm giving you a couple of minutes extra for Q&A.
Frank Bisignano
So a few of you have said to me on -- at running NPL [ph], "Who did you get mad to get this assignment?" Or you said, "What did you do wrong or you drew the short straw." And so what I like to talk to you about is the full firm effort that goes into where we are today and managing this going forward. And then secondly, I'd like to -- when you think about the mortgage business, if you think about it in multiple ways, I want to cover that through the agenda. One, a processing business that has $4 billion in top line revenue for us. A business that is driven by risk management and that is both on the credit and market side. And then a customer-centric business that, in fact, has multiple constituents that care very much about the outcome of it. And when we talk about the full firm effort, and what's been done in '11 and then the plans for '12 and forward, I think it's important to think about the efforts you'll hear from all of us today, specifically, my partners Gordon and Todd on One Chase. And you've heard us talk all about that, but think about the business that is focused on the customer, that's customer-centric, it's not a product only and think about the fact we have 51 million households, 63 million customers, so the opportunity if we run this right, and with Gordon and Todd and myself engineering One Chase, the brand, the customer and then the infrastructure, I think, that well positions this business for us going forward.
I think secondly, it's important to recognize that we have fabulous markets and risk management expertise in this company. And when this assignment was taken on by myself, both Jes Staley and Ina Drew, our CIO and our Head of Investment Banking partnered, brought talents to the table, and in fact, began helping me evaluate the processes within the business, whether it'd be the MSR management or market risk in general. And that teamwork has gotten us to a much better place in this business.
And then you'll look at the other areas of the company, this will be a technology and processing story, and the CIO of the company, Guy Chiarello, Chief Information Officer, and technology prowess that was brought here and the leveragability of technology that we've used in the business. And then obviously, you all read about and continue to read about the matters of regulatory and litigation, and the total team effort that's been done here, right, whether it be compliance or legal led by Steve Cutler, and I'll talk more about that.
But it is important to look at the full-firm effort. I don't know that you can win at the mortgage business if you don't treat it as the full-firm effort and treat it as 3 major elements: Customer, processing, risk management, right. So as you look at 2011, I'd like to think about it as the year of repositioning. This business has gone through a tremendous amount in '11. Now when you look at credit, and you see us -- that's what we talked about, what to really think about is that at the peak we were running such higher rates of early delinquency than we see today. And today's '09 and plus delinquency that we talked about at the -- 0.5% is really driven by HARP so you can also look at that as older vintage. Lots of government reform, lots of borrower relief. I'm going to talk about all the things we've done in borrower relief and how much has been accomplished and how much will still be accomplished.
Doug referred to the DOJ/AG settlement. That was a big deal. It's not the end all, be all, but I'd like to say getting problems behind us. This is as an industry is a big deal. And then, yes, the consent order that you heard about in April, which we'll talk a little bit about where we are in that process and how we move that forward. It's not to say there's not more concern out there, but I think '11 was the year to set up to move this business forward.
Now during '11, Chase itself established itself in a lot of ways. I talked a little bit about all the talents around the company that rallied around it. I think, also a big deal that was done is we created something called borrower assistance. And what that was, us taking default management where modifications was occurring and turning it into a customer-facing business. That's 10,000 FTEs dedicated against modifying mortgages, and we'll talk about how that changes over time.
And then we've invested in the front end of the business and you see the results. We added 700 loan officers, and we'll continue to invest in that. I think also, it's important when I talk about technology, we consolidated all our back-end systems, right.
Now we were on LPS. Those who know the mortgage business know that company, and they're down there, but we had 3 versions of LPS, and that may not sound significant, but it's significant when in fact that you're trying to answer a question and you're a representative, or it's significant if there's different data fields out there. So that back-end consolidation is a platform opportunity that was done in the fourth quarter. And then in fact, you'll look at -- and we'll talk about our individual business. What we continually increase short sales and mods at much rapid pace, and if you even looked at the latest article, that may have been even ones in the papers today and yesterday on short-sales volume, we outpace the industry by a lot on these numbers. I think one of the things we think about is we have established ourselves right now, and I think it's a firm position that will continue as the #2 originator of mortgages. But it's through the power of our branch franchise, and that was a great increase. Todd will talk about the power of the branch later.
While doing that, we talked about going from 12 to 5, and by no means, we want to be a fifth place player. But I would also think about that #5 position. Total originations we did as the #5 player was more than the top 4 added up together. So all the big players sat behind us. That was a 2011 picture, and we started in one place in the beginning, and we continue through the journey. And we also tremendously improved our relations, right. Whether it be the military, whether it be advocacy groups, we found it important to partner in all the places that care about mortgages, and that's everywhere across America.
And then of course, we added a lot of talent in our risk and control processes. We took top-quality people both inside and outside the company who had significant positions and put them in a control environment in this business. When you look at all that, what you've found is a business that's -- going to better perform, a business that ultimately will have lower repurchase losses, and in fact, really, really valuing our retail franchise. And the retail franchise is where we believe mortgages will continue to get growing going at us.
We're very strong in our consumer direct. We did more than 275,000 mortgages in our consumer direct. If you want to understand consumer direct, think about Quicken. But we view that, fundamentally, as a very productive platform to originate. But we do believe that our branches are very powerful. And if you look at this slide, in fact, that's Slide #4, this shows that we've had the best retail originations growth on a percentage basis and actual -- real originations growth in our industry.
And so you get to -- it's really important, and I believe that technology and processing are the obsessions that we need to run the front end and the back end of this business, correctly. And that's why you see us focusing also on everything we do for the customer. Because if we analyze those processes, if we drive those processes, and that's what Kevin Waters did on the front end of this business this year, right. It is through that, that you drive down complaints, you drive down problems. You drive up satisfaction. And I believe all that happens while driving down costs. So all of the efficiency and control we build in will actually be less expensive for this business going forward. I think what's important to know is the mortgage business had been one that people really thought about when volumes goes up, cycle time increases.
If you looked at our business over the last half of the year, we were doing 50% more volume, and we had taken cycle time down by 30%-33% and probably had the best-rate lock of any big player in the business.
Now I think it speaks for itself the results yes. We did trim Correspondent a little bit, so when you look at our total performance of originations, it's lower on a percent basis in total, but we do believe the best business out there is the originations of retail loans. We do believe in building a purchase business going forward and really think that long-term mortgage business will be helping people own homes. And so when you look at '11, I think what really we're focused on is what happened in the pretax production end of the business, and we prove that we can be a very profitable at front end.
We also think a good way to look at this business, I really am an advocate of this, is thinking about the ongoing business versus the legacy runoff. And you could if you broke out the '11 business, you would look at a very profitable business. Yes, we resized the MSR, and we think we did that wisely, conservatively. And in fact, that was in our economics. We spent a lot of money on legacy issues and problems. But our go-forward approach will be to run the ongoing concern as a very profitable business with a normalized ROE in about the 15% area. And we believe we can make money both in the front-end servicing and in portfolio management here. I think it's worth looking at the amount of headwinds that was in this business and that will carry through '12. But '12 clearly is the year that you will watch us perform in a way that will close out the past and move forward, right. And of course, we have a lot of servicing and default expense driven by a consent order, driven by a large number of people against modifications.
Now remember, modification, if you go back 3 years ago, was a word that did not have a process against it. Then went through a large redefinition by the government, multiple times. So that's a large nouveau start-up, if you think about it that way, of 10,000 people against it. That's a big drag on expense and other foreclosure-related matters in general that we went through. So a lot of drain, as Doug talked about it. But I think we have pure clarity on what it was, what it is and how it will proceed.
At '12, we like to think about a place we're winning. We see it today. We're 2 months into the year. We understand the year. We have good vision with what's going on there. First and foremost is running a customer-centric business with my partners, Todd and Gordon, as One Chase. And having this be a good product in the branches, a good product to help do business in the branches and serve our footprint very well.
Customer experience, you can continue to count on improving our scores, and we have high aspirations to be the #1 provider, and we have plans on how to do that. And if we're not #1, we'll battle for #1 all the time in the service arena. We spend a relentless amount of time analyzing the problems of the past. And with that, we'll bring technological solutions and process solutions to better manage our business.
We're going to continue to expand the front-end business, as you can count on us adding probably 1,000 new loan officers. But that addition comes without a price of service or quality or timeliness or economic, and we see very strong economics as we continue to bring in front-end systems and front-end processing changes. The control environment we approach this year, like control is foreseen, control is king, we will put the best talent against it. We think it's important to every day analyze defects and then put processes in to make them go away. Those processes will be technologically driven, and they're overseen constantly. We greatly increased the amount of technologists in this business, and I'll talk about how we did it, because we did it through great programs that this company has, like talent reassignment where we moved 300 technologists in one from the credit card division to the mortgage companies. And that talks about the power of the franchise and the partnerships, and where we put people to the highest and best usage. And that's why when you hear us talk about technology, and my question, "How have you guys so much done in such a short period of time?" Well, it's resource allocation and attention, it's the CIO of the company. We brought the CIO of the credit card company over. We have great talent against it. And that is, first and foremost, driven on having a controlled environment and the customer-defect environment going away.
So I think if you build that way and if you continue to do this, you could see why we are optimistic about this business. The fact of the matter is when you talk about the mortgage business, people want to ask the questions, "Well, the refi boom is going down. You're going to see HARP this year, but what about the future?" But we're really looking at positioning a business to help people own homes. Positioning a business to build out what is the core, which is the mortgage is a fundamental product for people. And I think it's important to recognize as others are dropping out, Jamie has always driven us to stay the course. He's done it in every business he's driven us in. And staying the course means, in a very difficult time, staying there for our customers. We are in this business for our customers. People will buy homes. Housing starts here at all-time lows. Household formation is actually at a higher level than housing starts. You will see a change. We are positioned for that change. It may not all happen in the next 2 years but staying the course is really important for us in the business.
Now I did say it is a risk management business, and I will begin to take the risk up here with you. I'm going to ask you 2 questions, right. And the first is, who here has ever applied for a mortgage? Raise your hand if you've ever applied for a mortgage? Everybody's telling the truth? I see some people I know that's likely telling the truth. Okay. Wait, now wait until I say put your hand down yet. No. Okay. Keep your hands up if when you applied for mortgage, it was the largest financial transaction you did it at that time. Anytime in your life, the first mortgage you did was the largest financial, okay. Those who didn't raise their hand, I know who you are. Now you wonder why I say -- security reports know that, so I know that. You wonder why I say -- asked those I questions. I'll show you a video of technology that we brought to market. If you're on the Web, please click on Page 11. Did I follow the instructions right on that? Good. I think this will give you an example of what's already changed.
[Presentation]
So I think when we look at this, this is what the customer, during a mortgage process, will have access to, rolled out now. They can move their docs in, they could do business that way. Behind that, we're bringing in a new origination system. That new origination system is proven. It will be in, in the third quarter of this year. We believe it gives us a 2x productivity lift. It is a complete reengineering of our production process. And that reengineering is one that we all believe in, which is functionalization. One of the greatest problems in mortgage originations over time is how people have added staff, down staff and you're watching we do this. We believe in volume incentive businesses that we add intelligently, and we can maintain service at all levels. There's numerous origination system that we're bringing, which we've seen work. We know it works. Will, in fact, manage our workflow in a way that allows us to deliver the best service in the industry. What we did up till now to move from 12 to 5 was what I like to call is brute force management, and now we're moving in '12 to, what I would call state-of-the-art, best-in-the-class, be able to do it forever, build this business forever. And it's really what we believe. We're going to build the business in the branches. We're going to build that online. We're going to go through mobile.
Purchase is a major focus. I think you hear me talking about purchase. But what to really think about is we have 70,000 small business, medium-sized business customers who are realtors, a realtors. Definite resource that are already in our footprint. And our aspiration is that through our good work and our good service that we take our current customers, and they help us in the business that we believe we could be the best at. So think about that source. And we believe that the realtor is the greatest source of purchase business because they care about closing the loan. And that's the business we're in.
76 million homes are owned in this country. More than 50 million of them have mortgages on them. As I said before, household formation is going up. I think this is a great opportunity, and we believe on measuring everything and managing it, every aspect of the origination process. If you look at it, it becomes -- it's been obvious to us over the past year plus and always has been that the mortgage is a key product that running the franchise is very critical to have a strong mortgage business. The affluent will tend to have mortgages with us. And in fact, the value of the household with the mortgage is much greater. And we do believe that, yes, it is possible and probable that the size of the pie might shrink because of refis. We also believe that everything we're doing position us to take a greater percent of the pie up for the business was originally designed for, owning homes. If you look at what the amount of customers we have currently that we can do business with does not include when we talk about the 6 million, I talked about the 50 million before. One is our total customer base for Chase, the other is branch banking customers.
And then another fact that in this year we're very proud of, we do believe we had the most productive sales force. Yes, a lot of it was through HARP. But, yes, that is the business we we're in and that's the business that we designed. And we don't aspire to 10,000, but we will continue to grow that sales force. And it's a growth that is well controlled and is immediately accretive when we put the feet on the street.
We like the economics. At the end of the day, we believe we can make $1.5 billion, plus or minus, a year of this business. And we believe that it does have market sensitivity. It is critical to us in total in our business. What we believe that we can be the lead player in the purchase market in our footprint. That's the objective, well positioned, well organized and will continue to proceed that way.
Now from all the questions, there was clearly people who want to know about repurchase. And I've laid 2 slides out here. But I think the way to think about it is, is that we continue to look at repurchase. We continue to get repurchase demand that exceeded what in fact we've seen in some cases, but that we cure it at a much greater rate. So we our receiving a much greater number of repurchases that have pay history and that we are able to cure, right. And I think when you look at the reserve and you look at what we've seen at -- come at us and you look at the slide on Page 18 and you'll see the declining rates coming in and the overall general performance. And remember, we talked about '05 to '08 vintage and what we've seen in repurchase from there versus current vintage, that in fact, this is a situation that we have well in hand and a situation, which we will manage through the course of the year.
We like the mortgage servicing business. If you go to Page 20, I think it's important to know that this is a business that, right now, has a lot of expense in it, and we will talk about how expense are. But we sit in a position as the third largest servicer, so we run a large processing company. And with our scale, our technology and our ability, this is a business that we will do very well in. Yes, we need to put the problems of the past behind us. And in some ways, the DOJ/AG settlement and the consent order allows us to do that. But we brought a lot of world-class technology into this business. I highlight one right here where I talked about NICE analytics.
This is analytics for every call received, that bubbles it up and analyzes everything that was said on the call. It will be rolled out firm-wide. One of the great things about what we're doing in the company is total leveragability. Any tool we bring into one segment, we make sure is leveraged across all segments. We brought fraud detection tools in another areas of the company. And ultimately, when you look at our short-sale analytics and what we did in the short sale, that was driven by using those same analytics to find where the best short-sales opportunity where and to help the customer. All that improves customer satisfaction, and all that reduces costs. Servicing is a customer satisfaction and a cost business where you have to manage operational risk. We know how to do all of those very well, and we start off with a good position with a $4 billion top line.
Now I think it's really important to understand the amount of energy and effort that's gone into short sales. So first of all, say 2011, $7 billion of principal in short sales, $3 billion of that was effective forgiveness of debt. We prevented twice as many foreclosures as were acted upon. We've offered over 1.2 million modifications. While doing that, we refinanced another million homes. We were the forerunner in CHOCs, home ownership centers, where people in distress can come and actually get counseling. 273,000 customers have come into those, and we will better leverage those, right. The amount of effort we've put in to keeping people in their home has been tremendous. Think about that this year alone, we gave up $400 million of interest income in modifications, right? That is money directly to the borrower. So there has been a tremendous amount of effort keeping people in their homes and a tremendous amount of effort to be able to put people in a position so if not -- if they can't stay in their home, they could do it in a manner like I talked about in short sales. These are not talked about enough, but I think it's important we all understand the amount of effort that goes into this, the amount of resource and the amount of skill.
I think it's also important to understand what's going on in foreclosures. And right now, if you look at what's occurred in foreclosures, I think it's important to know that 54% were non-owner occupied that were foreclosed on in the end, and more than 3/4 of that by the time of sale were vacant. So you do have a lot of walking away from homes going on. A lot of effort, a lot of work, it's important that we recognize it. And when you look at our statistics in total, what you do see is a continued performance improvement in every category. And this all will ultimately drive the expense story, which will be a technology story, a process improvement story, a customer satisfaction story and a declining problem story. And I think when you look at all these numbers, you'd see the declination of outstanding issues, and you'd see the forecast in them.
Doug alluded to the expense savings. He did more than allude to it. He actually pointed right to them and probably had the mortgage at the front of the pack, so it's important that I talk about it. This will be a story of volume decrease, and that's in default. That's in modifications, right, with 10,000 people decked against modifications. The technology we brought in, the better performance in the portfolio, we'll see that decline tremendously. It will be a control and quality initiative story and a process improvement story that allows us to continue to manage this. As early as 1.5 months from now, we will take 1,000 people in the back end of processing and move them to the front end of processing for loan originations.
One of the ratios we work very hard on is the tooth-to-tail ratio, and that will completely change in this business: how many front-end people we have versus how many back-end people we have. But you can see that through that over the longer period in time, you can expect us to take a couple billion dollars out of the expenses, as Doug had laid out, and do that in a methodical, controlled, high-service, well-thought-out way, which, in fact, leverages the talents of this organization so we use all the processes like talent reassignment that I talked before and had to move workloads around the country so we get the best option for people and the best opportunities for our business.
I'll cover DOJ AG settlement, but you've read about it enough that you know everything about it, at least 3 times. I've read most of the research before and after. Some people thought we'd pay as much as 30% of the settlement. Obviously, we paid on the servicing side 21% of the settlement, less on what we did on the refinancing. If you ask me, it was a good step. Anytime you put problems behind you, it's healthy. I think what's most important to recognize is it covered a large part of servicing. It covered a large part of originations. It did not cover, obviously, securitizations and whole loan sales. A lot of questions about MERS. For you in the securities business, think about DTCC. Think about an electronic depository, and think about we have minimal, minimal exposure, if any, relative to the path on this. And it was capped, the total exposure on this. So yes, MERS is an outstanding claim in a few states. I really want you to think about an electronic depository, and there's no backward change to foreclosures or anything that went on.
I think we're in good shape in the implementation of this and the DOJ AG settlement in total. And we have the consent order, which is pretty far along. When you work all those through and you run the expenses out, we look at after or pretax that we could run the servicing business on today's volumes and make it $1 billion. And we think we'd make a good return out of it. I think it's important to recognize that, that's a couple of years, right, we will get -- we will be adding every day. We're bringing -- going to be maniacal about process improvement and what has to happen. And while doing that, you heard Doug talked about basically the run-off portfolio. But I think it's important to recognize because a lot of people go, "You're going to lose net interest margin here." Doug referred to it before. This is a run-off portfolio, which, yes, but we'll redeploy, have the opportunity to redeploy capital, and it will perform much better from a credit perspective. So I think in this run-off scenario, as you look at it, what you see is actually a more profitable model and a way for us to run our business going forward. I think Doug covered it quite elegantly in that manner.
I'd like you to think about the following few closing themes, right, that really I try to address through this. One is we run already a good production business. We will build that business. We're positioned for success. We're not talking about an aspiration that we haven't already shown the output of both when you looked at our cost of origination, the highest producer in the business, and also you see where we moved in the customer set and you see how we can generate a purchase business. The customer experience will be king. Technology, process improvement, investing in the business will be the success factor in driving expense down, improving the control environment and building efficiencies for the future. We feel very good about the returning of capital in the portfolios and how that will work.
We do believe that significant legacy issues have been put behind us. That doesn't mean we've completely closed them out. It doesn't mean we're still not working on actions on the consent order. And it also means that in order to meet the DOJ settlement, to do the $3.7 billion that you saw on that screen of consumer redress, there's work in labor against it. But that's a work in labor we know how to do. It's defined. That will be worked very hard over the next 12 months. You can expect us to report regularly on the progress of that. We see this as a 15% ROE business. And I think when you think about the mortgage company and you think about One Chase and how mortgage sits in One Chase, and it's important that you know that is where we're headed, a customer-centric business. We will run the most profitable best returns as the industry can have, and we'll do it for what's good for the customers. It will be a customer-centric franchise that delivers results across the whole franchise.
So with that, I'll open up for any questions. Guy?
Question-and-Answer Session
Guy Moszkowski - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division
One of the things that you never mentioned in all of this was sort of the...
Frank Bisignano
I apologize.
Guy Moszkowski - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division
No, no, no. But it's just -- the big elephant in the room is, going forward, the housing finance system with respect to Fannie and Freddie government involvement. How did you build all of the new systems that you did in such a way that you can plug into whatever that's going to be in the future or devolve into something that's more private...
Frank Bisignano
I think that's really great. And I think when I talked in the beginning about the full benefit of the firm, one of my closest partners, with Jes Staley on this, from a markets perspective has been Matt Zames. And Matt's been working hard with us. And we brought Craig Delany in, another person out of fixed income, on engineering and front-end, so we're ready because there will be a point in time also that private money comes back to this. So that we're engineered for private money. We're engineered to do business with the GSCs, and we're also engineered to hold loans when appropriate. So I think our front-end is designed for all the options. That's really how we're thinking about it. We've actually consolidated under one management all of our originations securitization. So it fits within Jes and my purview, but gets the full benefit of the firm. If you look at most companies, they'll have an investment bank doing securitizations and they'll have a mortgage company doing securitizations. We really think there's great leverage in bringing it all together, and you get the benefit of those good thoughts that on -- as a mortgage company alone, you might not have thought about it. But as a mortgage business sitting within JPMorgan Chase, you engineer it for all the possible options. I think that -- look, I think the GSCs are here. They'll continue to be here. And we're prepared to do business. We're generating more than $0.5 billion of mortgages every day. So when I talk about market risk, I mean $0.5 billion of mortgages every day, having the best market balance that comes in Jes Staley's organization to help, led by Jes and Matt has been fabulous throughout the region [ph] and the thought process of it. Yes, sir?
Unknown Analyst
I'm following up on Guy's question. HARP 2.0, we're hearing a lot of good things out there. So it's bigger than expected. How long do you think that's going to last? Is it going to last all year? Will it die down in the summer? And secondly, with this AG settlement, a lot of U.S. Attorney General is going after a lot of banks on FHA violations. What do you think the impact on the FHA market going forward be?
Frank Bisignano
Well, I think 2 things. First of all, I think HARP 2.0 is bigger than we ever thought at the start. I think it carries through the summer, if the weather will be nice, but people still do wanted to get that return. So -- and we're a big fan of it. And there -- we have the belief that we want to. And it's one of the things that Jamie was very instrumental in helping us think about is we need to be at every table and discussing every item because if not, we may not get it right for the industry. So we've taken a large industry roll and that includes the people in the investment bank and the people on the mortgage bank. So we feel very good about HARP 2.0. It is bigger than people thought. It will last past this summer. The AGs have a job to do. I got to meet a lot of them. I guess I know them very well. And they will do their job. We will continue to run the best business we have, and I don't know in this day and age that anybody on the opposite side of originating merges see the responsibility other than to move towards litigation on issue. So I'm not really concerned about the FHA suits. For us, this is -- but I think the thing you should think about is if -- look at MERS, right, I don't know how many heard about MERS, and it was standing out there as a huge issue in the settlement. When I kept reflecting on it like it's a depository, it does electronic filings that's good for automation of industry. But it became something for somebody to hang on to. So these things are long and arduous. And Steve Cutler could spend a week with you on anyone of them. But we feel well-positioned on all these type of actions.
Unknown Analyst
Obviously, the agreement isn't complete yet, but some people were saying that the servicing standards are more onerous than anticipated, and that puts a huge burden on bank cost-wise and also opens the door for more litigation. What do you think about that?
Frank Bisignano
I don't see any of that. I think we had already moved pretty briskly. We talked about this -- listen, that negotiation went on for a very long time, right. And so we were continually working on improved servicing standards, and that all started even at the consent order time. The single point of contact, the spock that maybe you heard of, which was the largest item in the consent order, ultimately, is a logical thing. And I think in the end, all these things will be less expensive than anyone imagined. When you bring process and technology to them, I wouldn't worry about this as a cost problem at all.
Unknown Analyst
And related to that...
Frank Bisignano
Sarah is in charge, okay?
Unknown Analyst
Recently it was reported that you added a lot of foreign mortgage-backed securities. It seems like the jump was pretty big. I'm not sure if that's your responsibility.
Frank Bisignano
Ina Drew. Ina Drew, our CIO, who might be right there.
Unknown Analyst
Yes, with regards to these securities which were added, could you elaborate a little bit what type of securities exactly they are and how much capital you have to hold against these securities compared to what was the U.S. non-agency mortgage-backed securities?
Ina R. Drew
Yes, they're all very senior, super-senior, top of the capital structure, LTV -- low LTV loans that we were -- have been accumulating through the course really of the last year at fairly distressed prices as they have unfold and deleveraged out of Europe. The Basel I capital, 7%; Basel II restruc, just under 20%. So lower RWA versus most mortgage securities except from agency and the [indiscernible]. We have a mix. We have a mix of covered bonds in there as well so -- but all super-seniors, top of capital structure securities that we've been accumulating at best price through the [indiscernible].
Unknown Analyst
So we just saw a big chunk of market share move in the industry at B of A. They kind of pulled back. I'm just curious, if you talked about a 15% ROE business over time, you talked about licensing the servicing part of the business, and I understand you're focused more on the retail piece of it. But just curious of the thought process behind whether or not to grab a chunk of that market share as it came up for grabs because it's more than I think any of us has ever seen in the business.
Frank Bisignano
Yes. So relative -- like I said, relative to retail generation, we feel very strong that, that course were on in good shape. We're doing a lot of analysis and thinking through the next steps. And when you think about all the things in play right now relative to the correspondent business, you could expect us to run a strong correspondent business and continue to see that grow. We initially pared back or selective in who we had in correspondent. We will use that level of selectivity going forward. And I think it was important for us to get a couple of the issues behind us. We feel very good about that we'll be able to grow it across both businesses.
At this time, I'll turn it over to Todd Maclin. He'll talk to you about the branches and the great job he's done.
S. Todd Maclin
Good morning. Before I get started on my story, I do want to just give a shout out to Frank and the -- all the great folks in the mortgage business, and especially all the new people that came to the table to manage what is probably, in my 30 years, one of the biggest crises the industry has ever had. And Frank is known around these places, being one of our best crisis managers. And as you can only imagine, not a lot of glory all the time in taking on these assignments, so a real sign of partnership. And I'm not sure I can walk and chew and flip slides because you all have it already.
I do want to just point out that I've been in this job for 8 months. But when you're as old as I am and you work at this company, all the jobs used to be in the branches. So 33 years ago, that's where I started. This isn't my first county fair. I do want to -- I want -- I do want to start with Slide 1 and just give you some observations that I've seen in the 8 months since taking this job.
And the first is, if this is a 30%-plus ROE business -- it's really 40% today, but I'm sort of loading it up with all the Basel III capital that you want to. And it's a business that made $3.8 billion in 2011, and it's a business that will grow in the future. And we'll get to headwinds in a second, but just keep in mind that this is a business that will grow in the future.
Secondly, we're the third largest consumer and business bank in the United States. And we have significant presence in 23 states, and we have a large and attractive online and mobile banking client base. And we have a terrific brand, and we have great people.
And thirdly, we are continuing to invest in the future. And technology and equipment not only delights customers, but it lowers cost to serve. We'll talk about that in a minute. And branches and ATMs, we're adding those principally in places where we think the opportunity still exists, post Durbin and post some of the other regulatory requirements. And we're adding a different kind of feel to our branches with more focus on high net-worth clients, business bankers, more -- and more wealth advisers.
We don't necessarily have such a pretty picture for the next couple of years. This is an industry problem, and we have some headwinds to overcome. This graph is a simulation of pretax income, and it assumes only a 4% net growth after 2011. And you'll recognize a lot of these numbers because we've got our three $1 billion opportunities that we've talked about before. That's the Chase Private Client in the branches, Business Banking expansion in the Washington Mutual footprint, heritage footprint and beyond. And it also includes a return on our branches that we built since 2002. And as I mentioned, over the next 2 to 3 years, we're going to introduce a lot of new technology into the branches, in ATMs, and that's going to generate headcount savings for us, and it's going to encourage more transactions going to mobile and ATM and other forms of self-service.
So when you look at the slide, you've got about $1.4 billion in '12 headwinds, and then we've identified $1.5 billion in pretax growth leading into 2015. And then beyond that, sort of 2015-ish, we have assumed that rates will return to normal not too aggressively. And so with all of that, you can assume that we can achieve over $12 billion in pretax earnings by 2020, and you can see the growth rates well.
I'm going to go to Slide 3 and just give you a word on regulation and how we think about it. But the new rules will limit alternatives for consumer banks to grow revenues. And I'll just tell you because I know there's a lot in the news about the CFED. When you look at what we've done so far, we've actually done well beyond what's required. You heard Frank talk about customer experience. And we've taken a much more of a customer experience approach to things like NSF/OD. Because it's not necessarily a pleasant experience for people, and so we're not just following the rules, we're trying to follow what we think will give us the best customer experience. And not everybody has the same hand here. So there are going to be some winners and losers. Not all banks have the opportunity to shift earnings from debit interchange and overdraft, and many banks lack the products and the expertise to go after the rest of the consumer wallet. And so when you add it all up, regulatory reform has cost the industry about $20 billion annually. And rates this year, another, let's say, $4 billion annually.
So Slide 4 shows that the hardest hit customer segment is what we call transaction-only customers. That is customers that really have limited banking needs beyond a checking account and a debit card. And then in this slide, we've segmented our clients according to need. It just illustrates the obvious inverse relationship between banking needs and the contribution that each segment makes. So, look, for example, customers in segment 1, those were on the left, have less than $5,000 in deposit and investments, you should know that we think this customer segment represents about 32% of all U.S. consumers. And post regulation, we estimate that 4 out of 5 of these customers will be unprofitable for banks on a fully loaded basis. And so if you add up sections 1, 2 and 3, which takes you up to $100,000 in deposits and investments -- that's it, that's right -- yes, $100,000 deposits and investments, that makes up about 70% of all the U.S. consumers. And we figure that 2 out of 3 of those customers will be unprofitable for most banks.
This isn't really necessarily a great policy, but it is our future, and it will have consequences for people depending on what their status is and what their options are. And this is sort of a personal favorite slide of mine, not that it really matters, but it shows that the cost of a checking account and it compares it to other consumer services. But I would make the point here, folks, don't expect banks to have much pricing power in this environment. In fact, you can say that some have tried, and we've seen what happens when they do, right? So I think -- the point, I think, is if banks have a lot of fixed cost, the cost of banking services are low when compared to value provided, and it's low relative to other service in a cell phone, a cable TV or a gym membership, and -- but still, we don't expect that you're going to be able to increase them in this environment. And by the way, 85% of our customers have ways to free checking based on our new rules and new treatments.
I think on Slide 6, we just try to emphasize again the value that we provide to customers at minimal or no cost. So, look, here's the message. If you're going to compete in this game, you better have financial strength and scale because it's fixing to get pretty expensive. Customers expect banks to deliver convenience, and they want to have easy access and innovation, and they want to have all the best products and services. And scale is an advantage also when you're managing risk and when you're meeting the requirements of, shall we say, a slightly more stringent regulatory regime.
So financial strength and scale are going to give us the resources to introduce and spend money on technology and equipment and products, and that's going to reduce our cost to serve. And it also gives us products and channel. And frankly, the product capabilities are going to become key in serving the -- where the money is, which is the affluent consumer in the branches and the business customer in the branches.
Slide 7 divides clients into segments according to need to illustrate that we have a larger share of high-value customers. In this example, we've just taken those with more than $100,000 in deposits and investments. And we've determined that we have over a 50% larger share of high-value customers as compared to the U.S. population. And that's probably because we have a premium brand and because we are in the markets that are attractive to affluent customers. So our share of wallet has significant upside opportunity, and we'll be making good progress and have been making good progress in increasing our focus. So we're going to continue to consolidate more of the consumer wallet at Chase.
Slide 8 shows that affluent customers have a broader set of financial services needs. And you have to have to have great products and a full range of what the customers want if you're going to capture the share. And with a full menu of products, you can also bundle and price for value. Without superior credit card, mortgage, deposit and investment offerings, you're just going to leave money on the table and you can't deliver a complete solution. If you look to the second column from the right, the tallest one, and we call that segment 5 or those with a $500,000 deposits and income wallet. Now, folks, for this group, look at the circle in red, 75% of their wallet is in their investments. And it takes investment sophistication. It's not just 401(k)s and somebody else's mutual fund. I think being attached to JPMorgan Asset Management is a huge advantage for us, and we're exploring -- and we're going to exploit this to its fullest, and I say that, Mary Erdoes, it's not just because you're my girlfriend, okay? I mean it.
Let's move to Slide 9. Historically, we've spent the same amount of time with each customer segment. This slide illustrates time spent in the branches, but it also shows that we've generally been fairly democratic in our approach across all our channels. We're going to have to change our approach, and we are changing our approach, and we've got technology and processes and other ways to reduce the time that our bankers have to spend executing transactions. And that gives us more time to spend on sales and marketing management. And, in fact, if you look at our mix of branch folks, I think we've reduced over time 0.6 FTE per branch for transaction people, and we've increased 2.6 FTEs for sales and marketing and related new business activities.
So let's go to Slide 10. So I think I've done all your homework for you here. I think we've established that the environment for the consumer bank has changed, and that lost revenue opportunities have to be replaced with higher share of wallet and customer penetration. And not every bank is going to be prepared for this. And in my view, they're not prepared, positioned, they dont have the products or services, the attitude about a singular approach, the attitude about moving from a product-centric organizational structure to one where the customer is first.
On this slide then, I'd just like to offer 6 requirements to investors that's new. You can use to predict winners over losers for the next 5 to 10 years in the consumer banking business. And this is going to shock you. Are you're ready for this? I'm going to show why I think we're going to do really well across all 6 of those standards.
Slide 11 covers the first requirement, a strong reputation and the ability to deliver excellent customer experience. We've been on this path about a year, and the chart on the left illustrates that we have one of the strongest brands in the industry, and we score above direct competitors across key brand characteristics. I just used a couple of competitors in this example, but it's true more broadly. And the 2 charts on the right show that delivering a great customer experience has a meaningful impact on financial performance. And if you differentiate yourself with your customers, you get more of their relationship and you win more new clients.
Slide 12 shows the momentum. We have more momentum in customer experience than any other bank. And you can look at Forrester and J.D. Power and some of the other surveys out there. And it's because Gordo, Frank and Todd are universally committed to this commitment. We believe that banking cord and -- card and mortgage are just products and behind them is a customer. And the customer kind of wants to know that -- did all of their business with you matter. We've been out on the road. We've been to the best in the consumer industry folks. We have a lot of great clients, and they open up their doors to us. Folks like Southwest Airlines, Container Store, Ritz Carlton, and we can just go on and on, Home Depot, folks that have gotten this right, have been through turnarounds. And we learned a lot from them, and it convinced us that there's an absolute correlation between how the customer feels about you, particularly affluent customers.
Turn to Slide 13 and you can see it because customer experience is especially important to your higher-end customers. The chart on the left shows that relationship quality, reputation and trust are really important selection criteria and account for 60% of the reasons that affluent customers consolidate with a single bank. On the right, we also see that we earned 8x the wallet of the average relationship here. And we are afforded 60% of the client's total wallet. So being lead is really key to our strategy going forward, and we have the products and the services and the commitment to do it. To get the lead, we're going to start directing more and more treatments of customers who consolidate their business with Chase. And we'll bundle more, and we'll reward for loyalty, we'll reward for relationship and also for wallet share.
So let's move to Slide 14 and go to the reason number 2 that we will succeed, and that's superior product and service offering. Slide 15 isolates the 2 highest value client segments we have: the wealth client in the branches and the small business customer in the branches. Let's start with wealth. Our affluent customers tell us they want to use our branches, but they wanted a more private setting, so we established Chase Private Client to bring convenience to branches but with a higher touch and a better feel. If you guys want to see it, you can see it downstairs in the -- we are downstairs. You can see it down below us. And at the 270 Park branch, you can see it up and down Madison and Fifth Avenue where all you rich people live. But what you will see is a higher level of service. We started this mission a couple of years ago, and we believe we can capture an additional 3% of wallet or $100 billion in additional deposits and investments by 2018.
Let me move to business customers for a second on the right. They are also a significant opportunity. And they have sophisticated needs: commercial card, merchant services, treasury services, online and international. Because even small businesses can have fairly sophisticated needs. And they want a strong bank, and they want a strong brand, and they want a bank that's well-known and well-regarded for commercial banking.
Slide 16, more details on our Chase Private Client. We really got into high gear this past year, and we opened 246 new CPC locations inside our branches. And we immediately captured 22,000 customers, adding $1.6 billion in incremental deposits. And that's really our first year of aggressive expansion. So they just told us that we needed to accelerate, so we're going to move to 1,000 locations by the end of '12, and we think we'll have 75,000 Chase Private Clients. We believe we can add another $12 billion in deposits and investments by the end of 2012. And with 1,000 CPC locations, we think we'll be covering about 55% of our affluent clients that's out there. Is Barry Sommers in the room? Stand up, Barry. You look really nice. Barry runs our CPC and wealth business in the branches. And that's his history and background for many, many years, so you can talk to him at the break.
And then Slide 17 really shows why we're so pleased with Barry and with the results from CPC. Our early growth has really exceeded our expectations, and our greatest opportunity we've concluded in a blinding flash of the obvious are the wealthy people that we already know. We have a very, very high percentage of wealth clients. You saw it earlier. And they are doing their business in a lot of places. And when we introduced them this alternative, and we showed them how good our quality JPMorgan products are and give them asset management and asset allocation formulas that Mary's highest network clients are afforded, the uptake in this product has just been remarkable.
Moving up to Slide 18, Business Banking clients. There's no surprise that larger business customers produce 15x the revenue per relationship. And larger here, we we're just talking about customers with $3 million more in balances. So these are not huge companies. They're just the larger end of business banking. And again, to capture the larger end of business banking, you just have to have a stronger brand. You have to have a more prolific product set, and our reputation in commercial banking doesn't hurt.
It also doesn't hurt to own Chase Paymentech, which is a huge advantage because a lot of our competitors don't own merchant services, and we build and bring in new relationships by cross-selling merchant services and then getting the rest of the wallet. We're also going to introduce more client selection into our processes, and we spend more time and attention going after larger customers where we have the more sophisticated product set to offer.
Slide 19 shows the progress we have with business banking because remember, these are the expansion markets, think sort of WaMu and beyond, where we didn't have these services. And we're seeing productivity in our branches improve as we roll this out, but we're also seeing really, really high-growth rates. And look, across the U.S., our capital position. I saw some of your comments on this in your reports. But our capital position and our capacity is really a strong advantage to lending money. And we've gone to being #1 in volume in SBA this year. If -- we recently -- is Scott Geller here? He's probably out on the road. Scott Geller joined us to run business banking from commercial banking where he was our Head of Risk. And before that, he had 20 years in commercial. And he's very enthusiastic. And given his risk background, he's also comfortable with what we're originating, and it looks like some of the best loans that we've ever originated, and we don't have nearly as much competition.
Let's move to 3, which is convenience in branches, a favorite topic of many of you in the room. So let me just give you a quick reminder on our geographic and physical presence. We have a 10% market share in Texas. You knew I would mention Texas first, didn't you? But we also have a 10% or better share in New York, Louisiana, Michigan, Indiana, Illinois, Arizona, Utah. And we have a 5% to 10% share in California, Oregon, Washington, Ohio, Kentucky. And we have a less than 5% share in Georgia and Florida, but it's growing nicely. In fact, our position, based on third-party research, is that our national consumer deposit share grew more than any other top 10 U.S. consumer bank in '11. And our deposit share gains were even higher in California and Florida and the other expansion markets where we are a relative new player. We also saw -- and this really encouraged this nice share gains in places we've been for years, Chicago, Phoenix, Columbus, Houston, even here in New York City, and that's been very encouraging to us as well.
But I want to talk a little bit about branches and ATMs because they do still matter. But we will acknowledge that the branch economics have changed. What -- we want to be competitive in all our markets, so we're going to build branches where we have an opportunity and we have a good return for investment. But remember, what we build is also going to change, and we're going to use less expensive venues where they're possible. What we build is more CPC room in the branches, more business banking room in the branches, more technology, more self-service.
This Slide 22 shows all the possible locations we have identified utilizing our new algorithms and our new approach, taking into account Durbin as it is, a much lighter approach on NSF/ODs and other fees that might have driven more revenues in the past than they're going to in the future. But this is just the possible locations. You see in the middle the number, 900 possible locations for 2012 and beyond. But I want to just emphasize because a lot of people, I think, are concerned about this, that we evaluate them all, and we use all the relative -- all the realities of consumer banking economics, and we approve each and every one, one at a time, and we change our mind. So we started this year in January with a lift. I think it was around 175. It was 260 before. How are you doing, Mike? Can you hear me okay right where you were sitting staring at me? This is for you, baby. We approve them all one at a time. And we won't get -- if we don't get the return on investment, we're not going to build them. And we if we change our mind in 6 months because something is happening with usage or how they're being applied, we won't build them.
And -- but I got to tell you, when we look at places like California and Florida where we have gaps to fill, remember, what we acquired there was a decent branch network. But they hadn't exactly been investing at it at Washington Mutual for 3 or 4 years. They had much or more of a -- they were much more of a free checking shop, and we're trying to go up scale. So all I'm trying to say is, is that we have reduced our plans, and we've changed our algorithms, but there's still high opportunity locations out there.
Slide 23 shows a little bit of this. You can see our '12 forward pipeline. We're writing it to a 3-plus breakeven and a 6-plus or minus payback. 90% of them are going to be in medium and high opportunities. Cost to build goes up because we're making them fancier. You'll have more room for self-service and more room for rich people and business customers. But consumer deposits are valuable, and we do think -- and we don't think it's aggressive to say that at some point, the rate curve does go back to something that approaches reasonable, okay? And if you didn't think that was going to happen 2015, you pick your year, then you might take a different view. But we're not counting on it tomorrow, the next day, and we're being very conservative about what it could become.
Slide 24 isolates our new builds to show how they're doing. And I think there's a lot of questions about -- are you sorry about what you built before? And the answer is no because the yellow line really shows what we built up to '11. And I suspect, before Durbin, if we had written this line, it would look a little different. But it's all net positive, and it's still the billion dollars by 2018 that we told you it'd be. And then the blue line takes everything that we're going to build going forward. Except here, we got real conservative, and we said, "What if we built all 900 of them? What if we added the 900 from the page -- 2 pages before that I said we're going to look at one at a time, and I said we may or may not build if things change? What if we built all of them and added them to our pipe?" Well, what it says is in 2018, we pass what we built from '02 to '11 so it's accretive, if you will. And you'd like the ROIs, and you'd like the ROEs on these things as well. So our pace of new builds is, let's call it, 150 to 200, but it's going to change, and it's going to change according to opportunity, according to what our competitors are doing and according to what people are doing in our branches as we introduce more technology into the branches.
Slide 25 shows that branches help our other businesses grow even though they don't pay us anything for it. Right, Doug? Don't pay much. Now but all kidding aside, even really rich people like going into branches. We originate a lot of cards. We originate a bunch of mortgages, treasury and security services delivers coin and currency and is able to get fulsome relationship because of what they're able to do with the branch. Asset Management uses it as a network for expanding in this affluent market. So we all think that the branch benefits this place very broadly, and we don't use those economics when we figure out what I showed you before, whether or not to build the next one.
So let's move to 26 and so kind of whip that horse to death. And let's talk about this next requirement, which is the capacity to invest and innovate. 27 acknowledges that if we had under-invested in technology and equipment and branches and ATMs, we would have had improved financial results. That's what you can see on the right-hand side. And -- but we also know, from what I showed you earlier, that these investments will drive down cost to serve and will include -- improve our revenues. We do acknowledge that as bank earnings have suffered, we know a lot of our competitors are under-investing, and we're taking that into account as we look at our investment opportunities like branches and ATMs. But we've continued to invest, and we think we have shown that it will produce growth. So let's move to the item number 5, which is -- this is really important. It's importance that we all have to acknowledge the reality but also the opportunity to improve our cost to serve. And this shows that our investment in digital on Slide 29, investment in digital, mobile, ATM is reducing teller and branch activity, and therefore -- thereby lowering our transaction cost. In fact, 90% of all our transactions are now automated. Teller transactions and branch visits are dropping for transaction-only purposes in favor of mobile, ATM and online banking. And we have big plans to transform our service model using technology and data to better understand our clients, their needs and to serve those needs of our clients on transactions more effectively. We think it's also a way to delight customers. Think about when you used to go to the airport and wait in line, and now you go up to a machine, there's much more self-service, and you get what you want, and you hand them your bags and you move on. So imagine, in the context of what we're doing and what you'll see outside this room what we could accomplish.
We penciled in $500 million in cost-to-serve savings over the next 3-plus years as fewer people are needed to process the same number of transactions. A lot of that cost to serve though could be -- that cost-to-serve number could and should increase. And the only reason we're being conservative about it is because we're not going to torture people in the process of getting them to go to self-service. We're going to show them how. We're going to be patient about it. We're not going to lose customers or lose customer experience over it, and we think it'll happen naturally. And whether it's 2 to 3 years from now or more quickly will be a function of how well we execute.
Ryan McInerney is in the room, and he's going to come up in a second to tell you what we're developing with our key vendors. And during the break, you'll see it outside the room. I think a lot of it is out towards the front door. But suffice it to say that branch and ATM self-service has the capacity to be a game changer for us. And for those of you that traveled to Europe, you've seen it in action there. It just has to be built here for a lot more volume because these markets are so much bigger, which leads me to the last requirement, and that's the requirement of the capacity to adapt, okay. And we're going through a lot of change as a company as it relates to our consumer business. One of those examples I would use is regulation. It's here to stay, and it's going to have an impact on the consumer banking operating environment. And it's going to take scale and financial strength to meet the new rules or regulation because there are -- there is more regulation and there are more regulators.
The cost and required duties of regulation are really harder on smaller banks because without scale, capital and resources, they have a tougher time meeting the new standards. And while we aren't going to fight these rules, we're going to leave it to the legislators and others to focus on regulatory policies. And instead, we're just going to meet the laws of the land. We're going to recognize that we can't compete effectively if we're running afoul of our regulators in any way. I'll give you an example on that conversation about branches we were having. If we build branches to meet our CRA duties and responsibilities, we're going to build every one of them. It doesn't matter what they cost because we have such a beautiful opportunity serving consumers that whatever cost branches are to meet regulatory requirements is small in comparison to the opportunity. We're going to invest in meeting new standards. We're going to recognize we can't compete effectively without doing so. It's going to take more time and resources, but we've got the scale and the capacity to do it.
Slide 33 provides another example of adaptation. You heard Frank mentioned it when he was up here, and that's just whole One Chase thing. It is no small path, folks, to go from the way most banks are organized today which is very product and channel-centric to where you are customer first or total customer centric. And perhaps some are farther along than others, but there's a ton of examples of people out there that have really stayed within much more of a banking mortgage and credit card separation. And it's not a new subject for us because we've been on this path for a number of years. But I think Frank, Gordon and Todd are committed to moving and accelerating that path more quickly, in part, because, well, the organization is ready for this. We've got a lot of our problems behind us, and we can start to invest in the technology and resources to do it. And we're really committed to tearing down the wall -- everybody's ready that book, Tearing Down the Walls, haven't you? But we're all committed to tearing down the walls between our banking, mortgage, card and lending products.
There are significant opportunities to simplify payment systems, improve data collection, interpretation of customer activities and data so you can use it to sell better, target market, stream services, and it's all designed really around a single client view. And over time, we'll merge activities and systems in ways that make sense and save money. I could give you an example in terms of just -- we have a vast number of payment systems across the place, and Frank and his technology team has started to attack that issue to see whether we need all 16 or 17 of those payment systems to delight our customers.
And another example is on the revenue side where we've made a lot of progress, but there's still credit card customers without banking relationships and vice versa. There's also a significant card spent by our banking customers with our competitors, and we see it, and we know where it is because we've seen it in our payment system, and we've started to try and to address that. And we're doing this so far without really -- one of the things Jamie has harped on is give people value for tenure, giving people value for performance, give people value for multiple products. And I think there's a huge opportunity there that we will develop over time.
So I'm going to stop here where I started and just make a few points, and then we'll open it up to questions. Actually, I'm going to bring Ryan up, and then we'll open it up to questions. I think the bottom line is that we have a consumer and business banking business that's well-positioned on these 6 key points. We're going to be a growth business after a couple of years of headwinds. We have a superior brand with the consumer, and we intend to be a leader in customer experience. We have significant competitive advantages, and we plan to continue to capitalize on them with superior products, services and financial strength and stability. And we can afford to invest in the future, and we're going to continue to do so wisely. We will achieve cost-to-serve savings, and we will add customers and share of customer wallet.
So with that, I think what I'll do is ask Ryan McInerney to come up and tell you a little bit about the technology that you're going to see outside during the break, and then I'll come up and answer any questions you have. Thanks.
Ryan McInerney
Good morning, everyone. Todd shared with you some statistics that showed how our customers have really embraced technology to change the way they do everyday banking with us. What I'd like to do is take just a few moments and share with you how we've taken technology inside the 4 walls of the branch to start to transform how we interact with our cu