Altria Group, Inc. (NYSE:MO)
2015 Investor Day Conference Call
June 23, 2015 09:00 AM ET
Executives
Sarah Knakmuhs - VP, IR, Altria Client Services Incorporated
Marty Barrington - President and CEO
Billy Gifford - CFO
Craig Johnson - President and CEO, Altria Group Distribution Company
Denise Keane - EVP and General Counsel
Howard Willard - COO
Analysts
Nik Modi - RBC Capital Markets, LLC
Vivien Azer - Cowen and Company
Judy Hong - Goldman Sachs
Michael Lavery - CLSA Americas
Bill Marshall - Barclays Capital
Chris Growe - Stifel Nicolaus
Bonnie Herzog - Wells Fargo Securities
Sarah Knakmuhs
Good morning everyone and thanks for being with us. For those I have not met, I’m Sarah Knakmuhs, Vice President of Investor Relations. Welcome to all of you here today and listening on the webcast. Before we start, a few reminders.
Our remarks today contain certain forward-looking statements and reference non-GAAP financial measures. Please direct your attention to the Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements for a description of the various factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from projections included in today’s remarks. Reconciliations and further explanations of the non-GAAP financial measures discussed today are available on altria.com and on the Altria Investor App.
Future dividend payments and share repurchases remain subject to the discretion of Altria’s Board of Directors. The timing of share repurchases depends on marketplace conditions and other factors. Comparisons to tobacco competitors are made prior to their recently completed transaction.
Let’s review the agenda and who we have joining us. First, our CEO Marty Barrington will begin with a reminder of our financial objectives, strategies and track record of performance. Billy Gifford, our Chief Financial Officer, will then provide an update on our diverse income streams, strong balance sheet and productivity efforts.
Craig Johnson, CEO of Altria Group Distribution Company, will explain our strong consumer engagement, sales and distribution capabilities. We’ll have some time for questions and answers and take a break.
After the break three key leaders will discuss how Altria navigates the external environment. Denise Keane, our General Counsel; Jim Dillard, who heads our Regulatory Affairs and is our Chief Innovation Officer and Bruce Gates who leads our External Affairs, will participate in a panel discussion and take your questions.
We’ll then hear from Howard Willard, our Chief Operating Officer, on how we invest in premium brands. In particular, Howard will focus on Marlboro, its evolution and key results. Again, we’ll take questions and then break for a special lunch for those joining us in New York.
In addition to these speakers, we’re joined today by the presidents of our operating companies, our sales leadership and key members of the Marlboro brand team.
Again, thanks for being with us. I’ll now turn the program over to Marty.
Marty Barrington
Thanks, Sarah. Good morning, everyone, and welcome. We’re excited to spend the morning with you, and we have a great lineup planned. This morning, we’ll highlight three themes: heritage, talent, and innovation. Great brands and great companies are built and sustained over time through vision, execution, and stewardship. So, we’ll reflect on the strong heritage of our companies and of our brands. We’ve long believed our emphasis on and investment in developing people sets us apart and drives our business results. We were delighted recently when Forbes named Altria among its top 100 list of America’s Best Employers. Our focus on people development supports a strong and deep management bench and effective succession planning. Today, we’ve brought many on our team, so you can see firsthand the difference our great people make.
We’ll also be reminded of the many ways innovation has driven our success over time and is fueling our performance today, particularly during our focus on Marlboro later this morning.
So, let’s begin. Our long-term financial goals are unchanged. We seek to deliver adjusted diluted earnings per share growth at an average annual rate of 7% to 9% over time and maintain a target dividend payout ratio of approximately 80% of adjusted diluted EPS. From 2009 through 2014, we’ve produced adjusted diluted EPS growth of 8% on a compounded annual basis despite a persistently weak economy during most of this period. And our 80% dividend payout ratio at the end of 2014 was the highest in the S&P Food, Beverage, and Tobacco index. We remain focused on returning cash to shareholders, principally through a strong and growing dividend. Our attractive 4.4% annualized dividend yield as of June 15 was well above key benchmarks and higher than virtually all S&P Food, Beverage, and Tobacco peers.
We've increased our dividend on a compounded annual basis by almost 9% from 2009 to 2014. A growing dividend is an important part of our heritage having raised our dividend 48 times in the past 45 years. For illustrative purposes, a $360 investment in 10 Altria shares in 1970 would have grown to more than $500,000 through the first quarter of 2015 with reinvested dividends. That's a total shareholder return of more than 16 times that of the S&P 500 over this period including the value of shares in Kraft Foods group, Mondelez International, and Phillip Morris International you also would own.
In fact, earlier this year, several financial media outlets called Altria America's most successful stock in modern history. From 2010 through 2014, Altria delivered total shareholder return of 230%, which far outperformed both the S&P 500 and S&P Food, Beverage, and Tobacco index. So our track record of delivering outstanding shareholder returns is Altria's financial heritage and all of us remain focused on continuing to create long term value.
We continue to pursue three strategies to deliver against our long term financial objectives, first to maximize our core tobacco businesses for the long term, second to grow new income streams through innovative tobacco products, and third to manage our diverse income streams and strong balance sheet to deliver consistent financial performance. Let's briefly examine the strength of the core tobacco businesses.
Together, our cigarette and cigar businesses form our smokable product segment. From 2011 through 2014, the segment produced 4.4% adjusted operating company’s income growth on a compounded annual basis to almost $7 billion, and achieved adjusted OCI margins of over 44%. In the first quarter of 2015, that momentum accelerated with adjusted OCI growth of 12.6% and margin expansion of 2.3 percentage points. The cornerstone is Marlboro; with a retail share of 44% for the first quarter of 2015, Marlboro remains larger than the next ten largest cigarette brands combined. Together with the balance of the portfolio, PMUSA has more than half of the retail share in the highly profitable US cigarette category.
Smokeless products provide our second largest earning source. Between 2011 and 2014, adjusted OCI increased almost 6% over $1 billion. Copenhagen and Skoal are the two leading premium brands with more than 51% share of the smokeless category for the first quarter of 2015, with the balance of the smokeless portfolio they command category leading adjusted OCI margins of over 60%.
These many advantages of our smokable and smokeless products businesses, including leading premium brands that are generating strong profit and margin growth make clear why we're maximizing the value of these businesses for shareholders over the long term. At the same time, many adult tobacco consumers are seeking innovative alternatives to traditional tobacco products. So our second strategy is to grow new income streams with innovative tobacco products.
Howard will speak about our product portfolio later, so let's look briefly at the broader opportunity before us. For many years, we've embraced the vision of developing lower risk tobacco products that appeal to adult tobacco consumers. That's one reason we supported FDA regulation of tobacco, and today real progress is being made. Importantly, FDA now provides the regulatory framework to bring such products to market, new technologies in our portfolio including Nu Mark’s e-vapor products and the exclusive US rights to commercialize two of PMI's "Heat not burn" products hold the promise for harm reduction.
Further, awareness of e-vapor is very high and more than 60% of adult smokers have tried an e-vapor product. So with adult tobacco consumer interest and established regulatory construct in technology development, many of the essential elements are in place to make this vision a reality. To seize this opportunity, we are taking a portfolio view of tobacco products and technologies and applying our substantial capabilities to succeed in the long-term.
Products are an important first step as are distribution and brand building. So, we began by introducing Nu Marks, MarkTen e-vapor products, acquiring Green Smoke, and establishing a national brand in distribution platform to enable future growth. We are optimizing our supply chain to support our evolving product portfolio. Nu Mark has invested in a robust quality system and improved supply chain efficiency in cost in particular through the Green Smoke acquisition.
We've also aligned with the strong partner in PMI to bring “Heat not burn” products to the U.S. We're pleased with the progress being made on both clinical research in testing of marketing concepts, and we're working well with PMI to support an application to the FDA for a modified risk tobacco product designation during the course of 2016.
We're also developing the science needed to succeed in the regulatory arena such as the recent data we presented to FDA on second hand vapor. And we are fully engaged in the modified risk tobacco product application process, in order to take advantage of the opportunities it offers for our businesses and adult tobacco consumers. So, we're bringing capabilities we’ve built over many years to bear on this important opportunity for the future, while maintaining disciplined pursuit of adjusted diluted EPS growth in a range of 7% to 9%.
Our final introductory word, given recent changes in industry structure. Market place change is of course constant. The recent transaction involving our competitors marks another one. It's important to remember that we’d faced change before, lots of it, and we believe our leadership position today is stronger than ever. Consider for example, the signing of the Master Settlement Agreement, a 2004 consolidation of two competitors, a massive increase in the federal excise tax on cigarettes and cigars, and institution of FDA regulation of tobacco products. During this period of change over 15 years, PM USA grew Marlboro, retail share almost seven points. Altria evolved to offer a total U.S tobacco platform, while delivering TSR of more than 1,000% more than five times the S&P 500s return. As I hope, we'll make clear today, we manage our businesses for the long-term which has allowed us to grow through change and deliver consistent performance. We do sell because of our company's extraordinary brands, superior execution, and talented people.
So, with that context, I'll turn things over to Billy.
Billy Gifford
Thanks Marty. Good morning everyone. Our third strategy is to manage our diverse income streams and strong balance sheet to deliver consistent financial performance. So, my remarks this morning will focus on three areas, our diverse business model, our strong balance sheet, and our ongoing productivity efforts. Each support our long-term financial goals, a growing adjusted diluted EPS at an average annual rate of 7% to 9% over time and maintaining a target dividend payout ratio of approximately 80% of adjusted diluted EPS.
To begin, Altria had the most diverse business model amongst their U.S appears. Our core tobacco businesses operate within the attracted domestic tobacco industry. Over the past five years, we estimate the U.S. tobacco manufactures profits grew at a compounded annual rate of 5.5% to nearly $15.5 billion. In 2014, Altria gained more than half of that profit pool to our tobacco companies leading positions across cigarettes, cigars and smokeless tobacco products. It's a total tobacco platform. Altria's core tobacco companies are complemented by our wine and beer assets which includes Ste Michelle Wine Estates and our equity investment in SABmiller.
In the wine segment Ste Michelle's goal is to grow income by expanding its share and distribution of premium wines. Ste Michelle has a strong portfolio of premium brands and a widely respected leadership team. Wine Enthusiast Magazine has honored Ste Michelle 20 times as a winery of the year, more than any other American winery. Since joining the Altria family, Ste Michelle has produced solid business and financial results. From 2009 through 2014 Ste Michelle grew adjusted operating companies income approximately 13% on a compounded annual basis and expanded adjusted OCI margins by 2.7 percentage points to almost 22%. It's a great business, it's small for Altria. As you know, Altria also holds an approximate 27% equity investment in SABmiller. This allows us to participate in the roughly $36 billion global beer profit pool; which grew approximately 4% annually over the past three years. Equity earnings from our investment in SABMiller had been a nice contributor to Altria’s earnings per share overtime. From 2009 to 2014 equity earnings from our investment in SABMiller have grown at a compounded annual rate of approximately 11%. In 2014, Altria recorded pre-tax earnings of more than $1 billion. As of June 15th the market value of our SABMiller investment was approximately $22 billion. As we said at [CAGNY] we regularly evaluate our SABMiller investment and at this time we believe maintaining the asset is in our shareholders' best interest.
We’re also well aware of speculation respecting global beer consolidation and how that might affect our investment in SABMiller. Our goal has been and remains to manage this investment in a way that delivers the best value for Altria's shareholders.
Regarding their financial services business, Philip Morris' Capital Corporation also has contributed through our diverse business model. However, as PMCC winds down we expect the income contribution to be uneven. As underlying lease income continues to decline and the opportunity for asset sales diminishes.
Let's now turn to our commitment to maintaining a strong balance sheet. Overtime the strength of the balance sheet has allowed Altria to weather difficult capital market conditions, make acquisitions, proactively manage our debt maturity towers and return cash to shareholders. Additionally our strong BBB plus credit rating allows us to competitively access the capital markets to cover short-term cash needs as we often do in April around income tax dividend and MSA payments. Our debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.7 to 1 as of March 31, 2015 was well within our credit agreement debt covenants of not more than 3:1. From now through the end of the year we will have $1 billion in long-term debt coming due. Our decision to refinance or retire this debt will depend on capital market conditions, Altria’s business needs and other factors. Our strong balance sheet and cash flow allows to return large amounts of cash to our shareholders primarily through dividend.
Over the past five years we raised our dividend six times for a compounded annual growth rate of almost 9%, reflecting dividend increases in line with adjusted earnings growth and our 80% target dividend payout ratio. In 2014, we paid shareholders $3.9 billion in dividends. Altria has also repurchased stock when we’ve concluded it's the best use of cash to maximize shareholder value. From the end of the first quarter of 2011 through the first quarter of this year, we reduced our outstanding shares by approximately 6%. During this period, we repurchased shares at a weighted average price of approximately $33 per share compared to approximately $50 at the end of the first quarter of 2015. At the end of the first quarter, we had $326 million remaining in our current $1 billion share repurchase program. In total from January 2010 through March 31, 2015, Altria has return more than $22 billion in cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
Lastly a word on our ongoing productivity and cost management efforts. As you know our track record on cost management is strong. In fact, Altria reduced cost by approximately $2 billion through two productivity programs between 2007 and 2013. Today our focus on increasing productivity and managing cost is steadfast. We’ve established an enterprise-wide simplification initiative to streamline processes and eliminate low value work. For example, we have improved efficiency of PM USA's manufacturing machinery. Standardized their technology systems across our company to release maintenance cost and for recent efforts by our employees, we designed more than 100 large and small processes, eliminating more than 18,000 hours of work and pretty net time for more valuable work. Managing cost is a key part of our long-term algorithm for delivering strong profit growth especially in this local product segment. In fact, over the five years ended in 2014, our controllable cost have been essentially flat on a compounded annual basis.
The world of rate of input cost completion. Additionally, we are benefitting from the exploration of the federal tobacco [quota] by our payments, which reduces our cost of goods sold in the [smokable] product segment for 2015 by approximately $300 million versus 2014. Our financial goals and strategies of course require a balance between improving productivity and discipline investment. From the end of the last productivity program through March 31, 2015, headcount in manufacturing facility has declined over 7%. As we are saving in our core business, we’re investing for our future. In addition to investments and product development, distribution and brand building for innovative tobacco products, we’re also expanding the regulatory science needed to advance our home reduction goals. We expect these investments to ultimately produce a diverse set of new tobacco products.
Finally, our culture and organizational strategy make the values I’ve described possible. As you will hear from Craig, our shared services model allows the flexibility to support our businesses as they change. For example, when we create a new mark we easily align the sales, financial and regulatory services needed to support the business because those services were already in place. It’s a model that has served us well allowing us to efficiently evolve in a changing tobacco industry.
To sum up, we believe that Altria is well positioned for continued success. Our diverse business model allows us to provide consistent performance through all business environments and our strong balance sheet and focus on productivity allow us to return large amounts of cash to our shareholders. Therefore, Altria reaffirms its guidance for 2015 full year adjusted diluted EPS in a range of $2.75 to $2.80 representing a growth rate of 7% to 9% from an adjusted diluted EPS of $2.57 in 2014.
Thanks for your attention. I’ll now turn the meeting over to Craig.
Craig Johnson
Thanks Billy and good morning everyone. Altria Group Distribution Company provides superior services to adult tobacco consumers and our customers on behalf of Altria’s four tobacco companies. This shared services model allows the operating companies to focus on brand building and manufacturing while we efficiently execute their plans in the marketplace with scale and quality. AGDC as we call it focuses on two areas; first, we connect the operating companies’ brands with tobacco consumers age 21 and older through one to one experiences; second, our sales and distribution system connects these brands to adult tobacco consumers in retail stores across United States.
Let’s begin with highlights from our consumer engagement work. Our consumer engagement team develops and executes our robust one to one marketing programs. This includes managing our database of nearly 20 million adult tobacco consumers and using this tool to deliver the right message to the right adult tobacco consumer using various channels. AGDC’s leading digital capabilities help the operating companies engage age verified adult tobacco consumers and strengthen their brand. For example the Marlboro, Copenhagen and Skoal website that we support, all ranked in the top 10 among 100 benchmark Web sites and a 2014 third party review for user satisfaction. Nobody in our industry does digital like we do.
We also immersed tobacco consumers 21 and older in the equity of our brands through experiences like Marlboro Black Lounge, Bar Nights, music festivals and once in a lifetime trips to the Marlboro Ranch in Montana. In total, our consumer engagement system delivered a remarkable 250 million interactions with adult tobacco consumers in 2014 up 20% from the previous year. As you will hear later, these interactions further our tobacco Company’s strong brand equities.
Of course as you can see from the fixture retail stores provide the principle way we reinforce and position our Company’s brands with adult tobacco consumers as they make their purchasing decisions. AGDC’s efforts result in broad distribution of our tobacco Company’s offerings in the marketplace with extraordinary feed and quality of execution. Today I’ll focus on four competitive advantages of our sales and distribution system. Our efficient and adaptable model, the innovative tools and resources we offer, our highly skilled and talented people and the effective alignment we’ve achieved with our trade partners.
Our sales and distribution system is designed so that our brands and offers are visible, available and priced competitively in a broad universe of retail stores across the U.S. This includes expanding existing brands and launching new innovative products, executing price and product promotions, communicating brand equity and news and promoting responsible retailing of tobacco products.
To consistently achieve our success we follow a proven strategy. Our goal is to gain alignment and support from our trade partners by promoting and demonstrating mutual business success. It begins with our world class distribution system which efficiently delivers products from our Company’s manufacturing facilities to our direct buying customers.
Using this cigarette model as an example, cigarettes manufactured in Richmond Virginia are shipped to a bonded warehouse which provides inventory to meet demand throughout the U.S. From this warehouse we ship product to 21 public warehouses allowing us to reach approximately 600 direct buying locations within just three days and from there it goes to retailer.
As part of this highly efficient model PM USA collects advance payments for its product before shipping to direct customers. Last year we distributed approximately 125 billion cigarettes through this system at a cost of less than a nickel per pack. When compared with U.S distribution benchmarks our distribution costs as a percentage of net revenues are far lower than what's considered most efficient. We complement this streamline distribution model with breadth and scale of retail coverage. AGDC covers approximately 240,000 retail stores representing over 95% of tobacco industry volume. Our talented Territory Sales Managers our TSM maintain regular contact with most of these stores while our third party call center supports and offers brand resources for lower volume stores. This system allows us to achieve breadth in the marketplace for our brand.
Over the past several years we've sharpened our shared services model. We've expanded the responsibilities of AGDC and reduced infrastructure cost. In 2007 for example AGDC supported only PM USA. Today we represent four of Altria's operating companies with an organization about 20% smaller. At the same time we generated capacity and expanded retail coverage primarily by improving our processes and systems. Tobacco products are offered in multiple U.S trade channels. We emphasize broad coverage and build relationships across these channels which differentiate us from our key competitors. Because convenient stores drive around 70% of the volume sold let's take a closer look at this trade class.
The sea store trade class is robust and relevant roughly 150,000 sea stores across the U.S generate approximately $700 billion in annual revenues including gasoline. Each and every day 160 million consumer trend and a convenient store. Almost half of all sea stores shoppers are in the important 21 to 39 aged demographic. Now while our convenient stores are important to us tobacco is also important to them. The tobacco categories lead in revenues at 36% of inside sales and delivered the third highest gross profit dollars at 17%. Importantly about 50% of the time the average adult tobacco consumer also purchases other items inside the sea store and that’s almost 20 points higher than the average per sea store consumer of other product categories. Those other items round out the market basket. The average adult tobacco consumers spend just over $25 per trip compared to roughly $6 for non-tobacco sea store purchases. So many sea store retailer rely on tobacco to increase food traffic and boost in store sales. We use these insights in achieving trade alignment and support for our offering. Of course retailers have options to consider when aligning with the manufacture. We believe there are three important reasons while we enjoyed great customer relationships.
First leadership brand it allows retailers to appeal broadly to adult tobacco consumers. Second innovated tools retailers can use to build their tobacco in overall business. And finally our talented people who are training to identify opportunities and provide solutions. Howard will discuss our leading brands later this morning. I'll address the tools we offer and our outstanding team. The tools we design help retailer drive food traffic and expand their margins. As an example through PM USAs retail leader trade program retailers receive incentives and promotional resources to help them grow their business. In return PM USA achieved acceptance of new offerings and product promotions in these stores. At the same time we received best in class visibility and product placement, connecting adult smokers with Marlboro's brand architecture.
Through retail leaders PM USA has achieved the desired retail look in more than 90% of its volume. This year PM USA enhanced its retail program to provide more options to trade partners and trade feedback has been very positive. These options include increased funding on Marlboro, resources to drive volume and improve retailer margins, integration with store loyalty programs and incentives for supplying scan data. Trade programs like retail leaders enable us to achieve outstanding speed and breadth of our offerings. Regardless of the category brand or promotional offer, our sales force consistently achieved distribution in over 85% of targeted stores within two weeks of an execution.
And while we used PM USA as an example, our other tobacco companies offer similar trade and incentive programs. To complement these programs, we offer flexible, high-impact merchandising solutions to achieve visibility, consistent brand placement and inventory management for our retailers and our brands. Retail store space is at a premium, and our job is to help our customers understand how space investments in tobacco may contribute to their profitability. Our merchandising solutions are creative and allow AGDC to quickly integrate new categories or brands like MarkTen e-vapor products. For example, we achieved strong product visibility for the MarkTen launch. AGDC developed curb-to-counter promotional visibility for MarkTen, achieving distribution in over 130,000 stores, with an overwhelming majority of stores meeting our visibility targets.
Our ability to provide category and market analytics to our customers also give our tobacco companies a competitive advantage. Our customers tell us that actionable insights are more important than ever. For example, retailers may understand the volume and share for the brands they sell, but not how their store performs against the local market. Our proprietary reporting system provides relevant store-level data for the tobacco categories. We can show customers how many stores are gaining or losing market share at an aggregate and store level. Then our sales team consults with retailers on how to capitalize on those insights to build their business. Let me show you an example.
Our TSM starts with a review of the category, such as this, to help a store manager understand how their store is performing against other stores in the marketplace. In this example, the store is growing their Marlboro volume. However, the account isn’t growing as fast as other stores in the market and that’s an opportunity for the store’s business. So, our TSM is trained to dissect the opportunity.
In this example, Marlboro Gold Pack is underperforming compared to the balance of Marlboro, contributing to Marlboro’s softness and the overall performance of the store. With this insight, the TSM will work with the retailer to identify store or market-specific solutions like pricing, visibility or availability to help get the store back on track. This is just one example of many that demonstrates the unique capabilities we’ve built to allow our talented sales force to help our trade partners make better decisions. The true strength of this system, however, is our people and the leadership and expertise they provide. The quality of our people not only provides for tremendous marketplace performance, but also enables the efficiency I’ve described creating a truly outstanding sales team starts with acquiring the best talent.
Now, given that we’re a tobacco company, we’re used to working hard to recruit top talent. We’ve built a leading recruiting program at major universities throughout the U.S. ranging from the University of Virginia to the University of Southern California that have successfully delivered strong talent for our organization. We’re extremely active on campus, building interest in an AGDC sales career. Then, we bring in over 100 interns annually to experience AGDC prior to their final year of school.
Last year, 85% of these interns accepted the full-time offers we extended. And often these efforts result in leaders who rise rapidly through our organization. Lauren Dougherty is a great example. We recruited Lauren from the University of Virginia’s McIntire School of Commerce into our intern program. She graduated in 2011 with a marketing and management degree and a 3.9 GPA. Lauren demonstrated outstanding leadership on campus, having served as a judge on the university’s judiciary committee and as a senior resident, leading a team of 12 resident advisors. After graduation, she joined AGDC as a TSM, quickly rose to manage multiple territories and is now working on our sales training team.
In fact, we’ve recruited and developed many leaders like Lauren across Altria’s companies and, as we think about the next generation of leaders, I’m proud to be joined by my team today from both consumer engagement and sales and distribution. I hope you’ll have a chance to meet them. These same leaders are responsible for the terrific relationship we have with our customers to achieve the alignment we want. We engage at all levels from store associates to CEOs to understand their business needs, share industry insights and gain feedback on our performance. We work hard to know where we stand with our customers and take their feedback seriously. For the past three years, we’ve conducted a third-party customer satisfaction survey. Across all metrics for our national and regional chain customers, AGDC outperforms tobacco competitors. For example, our
For example, our customers confirm they are most likely to recommend working with us to a colleague. And our customers place AGDC at the top of consumer goods sales teams, including our tobacco competitors. In conclusion, AGDC provides a significant competitive advantage for Altria in four important areas. We have a remarkable, efficient, and adaptable model for an ever-changing environment, innovative tools and resources for our companies and our customers, highly skilled people who are true category experts and effective alignment with our trade partners.
Now, I'll turn the program back to Marty and invite Billy to join me in answering your questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
A - Marty Barrington
Okay, thank you Craig, thank you Billy, well done. Wow, that didn't take look, we have hands up already. Let me tell how we're going to do this, we're going to do about 15-20 minutes, leading into the break. And my job is to be fair-minded to everyone, so can you stick them up again more time? Nick maybe I'll start with you, since you shot up first.
Nik Modi
You talked a lot about Marlboro, not a lot about the other brands, and I guess we're in an environment now where physically on a back bar is really what matters in terms of how you build the brands. And given all the M&A and changes in competitive environment, I'm just wondering, do you think this hypothesis is correct, over the next couple of years basically all the major players will just consolidate their own portfolios. So almost like eating their own tail, because that kind of strategy would reduce a lot of the competitive friction on the shelf. So I'm just curious on your thoughts that kind of thesis.
Marty Barrington
Okay, well let me make a comment about how we're thinking about this. And I think may be the best example Nick, was the retail shot that we had up there in middle when Craig was talking. So you can see our objective obviously is to get our best brands in the best visibility we can and we're entitled to our share, and that's how we do that. It's where consumers make their point of purchase. I think it's hard to predict what the others are going to do in light of the industry consolidation, but there's no question that there will be I think robust competition at the category at the point of sale. The other thing we always remember is, and I think Altria's actually been the leader in this regard, is to make sure that this is done responsibly, and Craig may want to expand on this in a moment about how well our trade partners have worked with us. The products need to be on the back bar as you say and I think that's true also for innovative tobacco products as we bring them there. We want to make sure that it is done responsibly, which is the way forward in the category. Now Craig, do you want to say a word about how you're seeing retail in light of the transaction.
Craig Johnson
Well, no. I agree with what you're saying Marty and I think, ultimately regarding space, the retailers making that decision and manufactures are the ones that are presenting their case for how space ought to be allocated and of course trade programs and the right brands help enable that. But I think the way Marty has summed it up is really right. I'll also give a credit to our retail trade partners and the responsible approach that they take to the category, they take it very serious, and they have in-depth training progress, and I think that's good for the industry overall.
Vivien Azer
Thank you. My question has to do with your consumer engagement initiative, I mean the 20 million adult tobacco consumers that you have in your database is quite a great number. Can you give us some color around the demographics around that database, does it skew towards adult smokers under 30? Are they engaging more, if they are [indiscernible] consumer, any color you can give us on the database itself would be helpful.
Billy Gifford
Yes, probably not as much as you want Vivien, and [Craig] might be able to do a better job with that than me later on. But what I would say, it's a pretty broad spectrum, we certainly work hard at having that spectrum. We also work hard at 21, 29 year old engagement. I think you saw up in the presentation, and I know you'll hear later from Howard this afternoon about the work we're doing with our consumer engagement with regards to digital and our websites, and the work there, so that's all good opportunity for us to enhance that database.
Unidentified Analyst
Just a follow up on there, how does that tie-in to some of your retail initiatives at store?
Billy Gifford
Well, certainly one of the things you'll hear more about is the mobile coupon work that we have had in a number of states, and we're going to be expanding that. That is something that we've worked with our retailers on because those mobile coupons are redeemed in their stores, so I would tell you that the alignment of our consumer engagement work with our retail work is becoming closer every day, and I think that's a really positive thing, it takes advantage of our shared services model very completely. Matt?
Marty Barrington
Thanks Billy. I just wanted to come back to your comments on cost management, longer term, you talked about magnitude of productivity, head count reduction, we heard about the efficiency of the distribution model, and you had stable controllable costs, but we can see from your competitor's expectation of merger synergies that there probably is an opportunity to not just keep costs stable, but actually move them materially lower overtime if the circumstances necessitated that. Something I guess from your perspective what accounts for that potential gap, where do you see over the very long term still substantial opportunity to take cost out of the business.
Billy Gifford
Thanks for the question Matt, I think when you look at cost over a longer period of time, you’ve seen us take out 2 billion of costs through those two programs I mentioned earlier. You see the quoted buyout payment, cost savings, or cost reduction coming out 100 million last year, 300 million this year, but we’re constantly combing the business for opportunities to reduce costs and keep costs under control.
Marty Barrington
We’ve mentioned a few times, so for example if you take the manufacturing base, one of the reasons we’ve consolidated cigarette manufacturing enrichment is because of the demographic profile of that hourly workforce, so when we made that decision between closing our North Carolina facility and the Virginia facility, the profile there Matt was that our workforce enrichment was really going to attrite out at about what we expected the rate of volume decline to be. Our overall philosophy on this is we would like to continue to reduce the cost in our business, and we are really focused on it, we mentioned simplification, we have a productivity initiative underway in that regard.
Without having to do big expensive announced programs, they are very disruptive, they are hard on our people, and they take money out on the system that you would otherwise like to put back in the business. So having sort of gotten the new Altria to the footprint we have, what it now means is sharpening our pencil all the time every year, and I will tell you that I’ve been very pleased like for example during the budgeting process at the risk of going back in time, maybe worked at a place where you know you had to kind of encourage people to find the cost, our line people and our staff people bring cost reduction in with their budgets. They know it’s expected and we’re making good progress.
You have a follow up on that or?
Unidentified Analyst
No not a follow up on that actually, if I could ask one slightly different question. So Marty, just on the state of the dialog with the FDA on MRTP designation, I was wondering if you could add any anecdotal color to that, just how you feel it's progressing your level of confidence that the data would support a designation based on what you know about their expectations today, how optimistic should we be that this is not a formality that’s going to end in a long drawn out sort of endless process, and actually have a --
Marty Barrington
I think it’s a terrific question, let met separate out content from timing. I’m optimistic and confident that we are going to have reduced arm products on the market in the United States, and I’ll tell you why is because that’s what the FDA bill requires that they do and there are now technologies available that look like they will do it, and everybody assuming the signs on it and the sign is promising now, and so I am bullish that we will have them working very hard on that I can tell you very hard on that because our mission is to satisfy the consumers and it will be good for public health if those products are brought to the market of course.
Now, timing, this is not going to happen overnight, the science has to be there. It requires clinical studies, so I know that there is this pent-up demand to see something in the marketplace with a claim on it, but remember the FDA bill has just passed in 2009. We had decades of traditional products in the market. These take place overtime. So my answer to your question is we’re investing in it because we believe in it, and we believe it’s going to happen, it's just going to take sort of stay on the course to do the work and prove it out. Our job is to put the products in front of the FDA and make the case for it. The FDA’s job is to evaluate the science and if the case is there to prove those products and let adult tobacco consumers decide. They are entitled to that information.
Judy Hong
Thank you. Two questions, so first just in terms of total tobacco industry, I think you’ve shown the profit pool growing at about 5.3% over the last four, five years. In terms of the consumption of cigarette equivalent units of how you look at the consumption where do you think that number is, and I know you’ve seen a little bit of movement between smoke with tobacco to maybe alternative tobacco products and cigarettes volume decline moderating a little bit so just in terms of the shift within the tobacco industry.
Marty Barrington
Yes, I guess we can break those numbers out for you, I don’t have that it in my head but I think it’s fair to say that the entire category if you look probably the best way to look at this is total pounds which is what the government data are. Total pounds decline is about 1% to 1.5% overtime, and because of the dual use, it’s kind of hard to break it out by category because you do have some people who are using multiple products. I would say though it seems that at this moment in time in 2015 that the industry dynamics are strong as they’ve been in sometime.
Judy Hong
Okay. And then the second question is just in terms of your reinvestment and maybe you are thinking about the payback from some of the reinvestments you’ve made, just quantify what you think and how we should think about some of those reinvestment decisions particularly in the context of other companies also making investments in equities, some of the e-vapor products, how do you think about the payback, and as you think about your portfolio of brands and products, you’ve highlighted that you’re one of the most diversified company in the industry, how do you think the diversification really shifts over time from your portfolio perspective.
Marty Barrington
Yes, you're talking mostly about reduced arm products, you're talking about the conventional side or both. Well look, and Bill you may want to talk about this in terms of the investment style we use. We have an offering to the marketplace. Our offering is that we are what we just took you through. We are large, we are mature, we have the leading brands, we have Gali and sales and distribution, I think Craig's done a magnificent job of showing what a competitive band, so we have all these competitive advantages.
Shareholders expect for us to get a return on that. That's why 7 to 9% is our aspiration and 80% of the cash through the dividend is top of mind with us, all the time. That said there have been on the shoals of business many companies who were so arrogant to think that things would never change and no technologies would come to market and no competitors would bring things to the market that could disrupt that model. We are not that vain and we believe that our obligation is to steward our brands for today while investing in tomorrow. The way we have described that Judy really is maximizing our core business while investing for our future and innovating for our future and I think we've been doing that and I would say Bill you can correct me with the numbers but over the last several years we've been investing in our future and we've been growing underlying EPS at 8% and we've given back 80% of the cash to the shareholders. So we have the people I think in the platform to do that. There're challenges in doing it of course, you have to balance every year, there are puts and takes but if you look at it over the long term that's the aspiration, that's the way forward for Altria and I think we've done a pretty good job of it. Bill you want to say something about the numbers.
Billy Gifford
Yes I think Marty you had it dead on. We really look at it in the context of our long term financial goals. You can go back a couple of years and you saw us invest in Marlboro with a new architecture and that's now paying dividends. So we really look at it in the context of that overall financial objective of 7 to 9 through time.
Michael Lavery
Thank you. A follow up and that and then I have one another one. Just near term in terms of spending maybe for the rest of the year what are some of your priorities and specifically if category and pricing momentum continue and obviously there's [indiscernible] savings, is there upside to some of your current spending plans and if so what do you see as the best incremental opportunities in terms of vapor based business, promotions, equity building, what kind of equity, lowered equity building look like, just some color on that.
Marty Barrington
I'm loath to get into too much detail for competitive reasons of course and of course we're in the middle of the quarter so you forgive me if I don't get to the level of detail you'd like. The best way to look at your problem Michael is a slide that Billy put up there about how we're harvesting our savings in the core business and we're investing it in various things. So on the innovative side of the business we've got a lot of product development going on, on vapor. We built national sales distribution you have to keep investing in distribution obviously to be relevant there. We're doing a lot of the regulatory science in reply to the question about how are you going to take it forward on reduced terms. So there's a lot of work to do there. As you know we also invest in our core brands over time. I think the best way to understand that is the way we described it when we offered our guidance. So I just don't want to get into too much detail on this kind of a setting if you forgive me.
Michael Lavery
And then just second on the NPM savings, you got a nice one time boost about three years ago from a settlement with the state and obviously that was, presumably the lowest lying fruit but two part question I guess, first is it reasonable to assume any other settlement would be across the whole industry like that one was or could you do anything individually and then if so in either case what you see as the prospects for something else may be coming.
Marty Barrington
I'm pleased to say that Billy Gifford and Denise Keane manage our NPM portfolio so I would invite Billy and then if Denise wants to say a word as well if you could. Billy what do you say?
Billy Gifford
I think Michael, we constantly go through the arbitration process, that's what it is behind the MSA, you saw the settlements take place with a number of states that you saw in the recent period. I think we continue down the arbitration pathways. It's prescribed in the MSA and we'll see as that proceeding takes place.
Denise Keane
The only thing I would add to that is we always remain open to settle with those states who have not chosen to settle heretofore. That having been said as Billy indicated we're getting ready to start the 2004 arbitration, how long that's going to take and when it's to get off the ground is slightly unclear but that is the process dictated by the MSA and that is what we're doing.
Bonnie Herzog
Thank you. I have a question on your innovation pipeline. Could you talk about how full it is especially for Marlboro and then how much further could you extend Marlboro while retaining the strong brand equity that you have behind the brand, I guess I'm thinking of Marlboro 2.0 possibly and then put that in context for us given the limited shelf space at retail and how that might shrink in the future as e-cigs and vapor products continue to take more of that space.
Marty Barrington
Okay, thanks for your question, I'm going to not steal a lot of Howard's thunder, cause Howard's going to talk about this, this afternoon I promise in detail and he's going to I think show you all of the innovation that has happened on Marlboro and I can assure you that we have such a talented Marlboro team, our job at Altria is to restrain how many ideas they can go after as opposed to trying to ask him to generate more they have tremendous ideas for Marlboro the brand is the kind of brand that can do really big things that no one else can do and so there is lots of that.
We're always looking on how to grow Marlboro, but we want to do that deliberately, we never want to dilute its equity and I think that while there have been some questions overtime about whether gee does it have too many SKUs or not I think when you look at the fixture that was behind Craig and you look at the growth of the brand and you look at the share growth and you look at the margin growth that comes in the smokable segment I think you have to concede probably that Marlboro really continues to have vitality and energy. I don't know Craig do you want to say anything about limited shelf space?
Craig Johnson
I would just kind of offer this perspective about from the retailer standpoint, as they think about how they allocate this space in their store, they want to be within their best interest what generates the most income for them so in the Tobacco category as I mentioned, foot traffic is a really big deal and the category provides terrific foot traffic in the market basket information I will refer to certain brands really do a better job than other brands and retailers understand that but ultimately as long as a brand is delivering from a revenue standpoint from generating foot traffic they are going to have a place in the store and Marlboro is a leader in that area so I know things will evolve over time but we feel that retailers and working with manufactures like us striking the right balance is going to be just fine and allow those brands that really want to do well in the marketplace a chance to be well represented.
Marty Barrington
Okay. Chris, I think you have the last question before the break.
Christopher Growe
Okay. Just one question and really a follow up and then one question if I could. So, I think for Craig the consumer engagement that you have in all the websites and the digital and the direct mail, is that helping I am going to say [down edge] the Marlboro brand like are there specifics that show how you are [showing] here more 18 to 30 year old smokers or engage the brand from the engagement activity.
Craig Johnson
Yes. The way I would answer that and in the break we can maybe talk to Cliff and Jim Campbell about more about that but the way I would say that is it I think more we do through our website through our digital, through our the app work, there is broad appeal to that but obviously the 21 plus finds that keenly interesting because that's kind of how they live their life and but it's not limited to that group so it's a broad appeal but there is a focus on that, that I think is helpful to be overall demographics of the brand. Howard is going to have a little bit more data on that in his presentation as well.
Christopher Growe
[Indiscernible] I don't want to take it away from Howard, but just in relation to the MLP program which you have started years ago and there's been multiple changes I'm sure [Indiscernible] all of them but that's program is that how is that changing on the brand is game share of the time that you should put in place are the resources devoted to that growing still, are they being reduced? I'm really thinking more about like a promotional standpoint.
Marty Barrington
Yes. What I would say about the MLP piece of our trade program work is when we first launch it was sort of here it is, here is the offer. Overtime we had expanded options around that, we have the margin [copy] we have MLP too and so it is changed and evolve, there is still very strong interest in utilizing MLP, the beauty of these programs is that a chain for example doesn’t have to make a decision for the entire chain they could say these stores and this market in this state, we can use this option for these stores in this area will use a different options so we try to give them various variability and flexibility with regards to how they the tool.
Okay with that I'll advice so we need to take a break we know that you all want to run to the phones tell everyone how wonderful Altria is and we don’t certainly to cut into any of that, we'll be back at 10:30 we have webcast obviously start so we'll be 10:30 sharp. Thank you everyone for your attention and there is break outside.
Marty Barrington
Welcome back from the break everyone. During the next session we're going to have chance to talk to three people who retained that focus externally. We've about 35 minutes; I'll start it out with a few questions and then open it up to you all for some questions.
So with me today on the far end of the stage is Bruce Gates who leads our External Affairs Organization. Next to Bruce is our Denise Keane our General Counsel, and immediate next to me is our Jim Dillard who is our Regulatory Affairs Practice and is our Chief Innovation Officer. So we often talk to investors about our strong external capabilities and today we've had the chance to learn a little bit more about our people.
So Bruce I'm going to start with you. And could you tell us a little bit more about your background and the experience and expertise that your team has in external affairs.
Bruce Gates
Sure thank you Sarah and good morning everyone. I love talking about my team. You’ve heard several speakers this morning already referencing important sweet plays on our people as a significant part of how we deliver the results that we have committed to deliver. And you heard Craig mention specifically the investments we make in developing people along with our commitments to occasionally seasoning our talent pool with external recruits and External Affairs Organization is a great example of that, by example I was brought into the company little over seven years ago after a 25 year career in politics and legislation working in Washington DC representing various corporate interests.
By comparison the head of our corporate affairs organization and head of our state government affairs organization our long time Altria employees each with 20 plus years' experience at Altria. And then finally the head of our Federal Government Affairs Organization came to us through the UST acquisition after a long career at UST and brought the perspective of that company and combined the four of us have about 100 years of experience in the external engagement world.
Similarly the rest of the team is diverse and skilled in the way they approach the work and we deploy them as appropriate geographically number of state government affairs folks deployed in various capitals around the country where they work every day. I should mention just how we organize the work in external affairs. So external affairs includes both the corporate affairs traditional corporate affairs functions community relations, corporate responsibility, communications, research, societal research and then our government affairs organization that includes federal and international government affairs and state and local government affairs.
The two teams though work quite closely with one another in developing the strategies that we use to effectively guard the parameter within which our companies do the work that they do. Taken all together it's a great team and a lot of experience and a lot of success.
Sarah Knakmuhs
Denise I'm going to come back to you with a similar question but little bit different. But Jim same question for you, if you could you tell us little bit about experience and expertise you and your team, please.
Jim Dillard
Yes absolutely. So much like Bruce I've got a very diverse team and I'll sort of spend more time on the regulatory affairs team. I think as most people know its six years old passage of the statue which is right at six years and so we had regulatory capability within Altria at the time. But it was focused in very different areas, we had various state and other national requirements from a regulatory perspective and we certainly a quality organization as well and six years ago I was one of the people that was working at UST. I headed up the operations group at UST. And just before that I had spent 13 years at food and drug administration approving medical devices. So I have a bit of circulative background. But amazingly when you start going down the roster how I understand I got this role, you take a look at who might have on the regulatory experience and who might have a little tobacco experience and I think Marty looked and said okay that guy let's go get him and let's start creating a department.
And so for the last six years I've had the benefit of really building a team that is really spectacular. We really approached building the organization with three strategies. The first strategy was to take a look at what the FDA is building and try to mirror that. So they have a big compliance organization a big science organization and a big policy organization and we have likewise constructed teams in order to be able to engage very directly with the people at the agency.
Our second strategy was to use the existing talented tobacco infrastructure that we had that already had quite a bit of regulatory experience, bring them in and continue to develop that capability with the tobacco expertise at the same time looking outside to pharmaceutical and medical device industries where people have had that sort of training. So we supplemented much of our hiring with people who have that external perspective. Then the third was to take a look at the areas that we’re going to be new from the statutory perspective. So population affects. We were very skilled and very talented in individual health effects but now with this new population standard we needed to look towards new expertise in the behavioral sciences in the epidemiologic sciences, and so we've been hiring and building talent in that area as well.
So fast forward six years, I have extremely talented group, we've developed terrific relationships with the agency, we participated in things like site programs, site tour programs, we present at the Tobacco Product Scientific Advisory Committee and we take a long-term perspective which we think is in the best interest of the businesses and our shareholders.
Sarah Knakmuhs
So Denise, same question for you. Could you also add on some insight of using the diversity in inclusion lines and why that’s important in putting together your team?
Denise Keane
Thank you Sarah, good morning everyone. I'm really so proud to be here to talk about the law department because I think it's a really great story. It's a function that truly partners with the business; and quite honestly it is a partnership that has been developed and has become enriched over time. If you look at the model that we follow we have experienced a versatile diverse lawyers. And sometimes we develop an in-house and sometimes we retain them externally.
I had the benefit of hiring most of them and I can say that I believe our law department can be benchmarked against any major CPG company or any major law firm in the country. The other thing I want to talk about is about kind of the work that we do. I mean most of it is work that you would find in CPG or regulated industry, but as you know we do litigation and as was mentioned earlier we really manage relationships with the NSA. And another group that we have is called brand integrity and check and trade channel integrity that works on coordinating with law enforcement and our trade partners to protect the integrity of our distribution system.
In terms of myself just to give you a little bit of the perspective. I have been GC of Altria since 2008 and before that I had a wide range of responsibilities and experiences in Altria and Philip Morris Company. So I have worked through some of the very significant events in our history and I've seen challenges but many, many opportunities. In terms of diversity that’s really an important place to pull this all together. Because diversity is very important to Altria, but I have to say I think it's really critical to the law department.
In fact I would even say it's a business necessity for us. Impeccable skills are given when you have a law department that’s what you need, but you really need people with diverse perspective and inclusive behaviors. Because when you think about it, we really need to partner with a really wide range of stakeholders. It starts at one end with our clients but quite honestly we talk to [juries] we talk to AGs, we talk to legislators, we talk to prosecutors. And I think those are the talents that brought together do the best to represent the company and our shareholders. So thank you.
Sarah Knakmuhs
Thanks Denise. So another addition to people I've heard about today is innovation and the role it plays across our businesses. Jim is our Chief Innovation Officer, can you give us some insight into kind of how those efforts are going at the enterprise level?
Jim Dillard
Yes absolutely. The innovation is certainly not new to Altria. We have been looking at innovative products now for well over a couple of decades. But I think at the broadest level what we've tried to do is think of innovation in a way that really is a rallying cry for the organization. So thinking about how can we set aside a vision that really people will understand that yes, we've been in the traditional tobacco space but what are we evolving into. So we've really put the rallying out to imagine what our future would look like.
Identify opportunities, and then develop and deliver flexible infrastructure to accelerate the pace at which we’re delivering both products and experiences for the adult tobacco consumer. The adult tobacco consumer clearly at the center of the play. But at a broader level -- enterprise and Billy mentioned this a bit, is that we have an initiative to look at all of our internal processes and internal infrastructure and really take an innovative and a simplifying approach to that infrastructure so that it enables all of the work that we do within innovation so that we’re breaking down the barriers inside as well as developing the opportunities for the adult tobacco consumers.
I use the analogy because I think it's appropriate here that we’re in a bit of a transition. We've had analog if you will traditional tobacco business is now for centuries and these analog tobacco businesses were very successful, but we've a digital revolution that’s happening our adult tobacco is at the center of that, they are looking for innovative products and innovative experiences and we need to develop those types of things in a very premium way so that we have the portfolio to be able to compete in this new digital world. And we’re taking many approaches that other industries have taken when they’ve made the transition from analog to digital we use connect and develop. We use other expertise outside of our business to be able -- technologies that are going to accelerate and enhance our capability to compete in the new digital world. That puts us at a point where the adult tobacco consumer and the digital types of experiences we think are going to be good for the businesses, good for new revenue streams and good for obviously our overall sets of experiences.
Sarah Knakmuhs
Great. Thanks Jim. So we heard from Jim kind of at the enterprise level beyond products. Denise, can you give us a couple of specific examples of innovation efforts by your team?
Denise Keane
Absolutely, there is a great deal of innovation that goes on in the law department and let me start in the litigation area. An important example is the way in which we’ve chosen to use technology to really enhance the way in which we handled document related issues. Documents are core aspect of litigation and I think we’ve really taken steps to position the company to be both efficient, effective and really very cost conscious in that area. Also when you talk about the angle cases, truly with angle cases are a one-off and they are very unique but they’ve changed the velocity of our litigation and so we needed to take a step back and say how can we deliver comparable quality, how can we make sure that we have the same rigorous what I would call A+ ability to defend the company. But how do we do it in a more effective and cost efficient manner.
And so we’ve really looked at some of our taste management strategies and we've deployed them for angle and we deployed them for other cases. In addition we’ve really invested in training, because going back to the theme I mentioned earlier diversity is very important to us. And so when really focusing on our trial teams we’ve invested in identifying training and developing diverse trial teams, and I think that that’s been an important and innovative infrastructure for Altria.
And then finally I just want to go back to the group I mentioned ever so briefly call brand and trade channel integrity. I think that’s an important service that is provided to the organization because it really represents a way to protect not only the integrity of the trade channel but also our brands, because what we do is we protect them against illicit trade, which is basically contraband and counterfeit. And it forms an ability for us to truly network with law enforcement, with prosecutors, with our legitimate trade partners. And I think that we have brought technology. We’ve brought systems and we have brought tools to enable us to do that on a pretty broad scale.
Sarah Knakmuhs
Great. Thanks Denise. Bruce, can you give us an example to the innovation efforts back from affairs and how they add value to the business?
Bruce Gates
Sure. One thing comes to mind is responsive to the question that Vivien asked Craig about the database, our team has been working with the sales and marketing organization for last several years in developing a separate consumer website for external engagement purposes. And through the work that they’ve done they’ve signed up more than a 150,000 consumers who have opted in to receive information about legislative work that maybe going on in their state or local area and several thousands, tens of thousands of them have already activated just this year in various legislative battles around the country.
And we think it’s a significant addition to our tool box and managing the issues particular at the state and local level where consumer engagement can really have an impact on the outcome. Another example is an example of the power that Jim mentioned that combining simplification and innovation are corporate sales organization which has responsibility for managing our corporate responsibility effort across the company has done a terrific job with the Altria.com Web site and the work that goes into feeding the data into that Web site for our corporate responsibility report streamlining the collection of the data which takes work out of the op-co that have to produce it and refining the report reducing it from a 100 plus pages to 37 pages while improving the transparency in the quality of the information they are providing as evidenced by the recognition that we get from external organizations including on the card that you’re having over here today.
So I think two great powerful examples of how innovation can not only streamline but improve results.
Sarah Knakmuhs
Thanks Bruce. I am going to ask one last question to the panelist before opening it out for the audience. There continues to be a lot of interest by investors, consumers, FDA, scientific community about potential reduced risk tobacco products. Our company has a long history of working towards reducing harmless tobacco products. Denise I'm going to start with you, but could you share with the audience the role your team has played highlighting any challenges or successes?
Denise Keane
Sure, I mean this is a topic that has been a huge focus to the organization and it’s also been one for the law department. In fact you can go back to the 90s when a code was introduced when it really became apparent that there was a huge interface between regulation and reduced harm. And in fact at that point in time we started to really seriously think about product regulation and the way in which a science based approach could really form a framework for reduced risk.
So, that became very much a focus in an exploration for the law department. Then we really became involved when the FSPTCA was first being proposed and we started studying and trying to understand both as the process started and as the wall was inactive. And quite honestly there was a compliance win that we brought to it. There was kind of an effort to dig deep to understand some of our product issues. And I think quite honestly there was also an effort to look for huge opportunities. And I think we were partners in having that happen. And so in reality this has really been a process. But there is one other thing that I just would like to mention and it really relates to the First Amendment, because I think to that scenario where in the law department we really have somewhat of a team perspective. And I do believe that it is very important for this whole reduced form discussion because we're in a place where the First Amendment guarantees an ability to have truthful communications and guarantees the ability to be able to connect with our adult tobacco users. And so in the context of regulation with the support of some of these protections that we have I really think we have a very important platform.
In addition, we have such an integrated approach, so I am going to turn it over to Bruce who has worked extensively in the same areas.
Bruce Gates
As you will recall Denise a he lot of the work that was done during that decade or so long effort working with congress to develop statuette was around a focus on the need for a national framework for regulating the category, not only to reduce under age use of traditional products but for a framework for potentially offering to consumers reduced risk products with potentially with claims. But it was our belief in this national framework that was so critical to defend to that process come forward now 10 years to 15 years actually with five years' experience with the statuette and we still consider that national framework really paramount ultimately to the success in delivering these products to consumer. So my team has since the enactment of the statuette has been working to articulate the statement local level to discourage state and local governments from certain regulating these innovative categories allowing the FDA, allowing the FDA and it's more science and evidenced based approach to have the opportunity to value based products and will allow this team regulation to come into fruition. The reality is the state and local government don’t have the capabilities that the federal government has to softly analyze the science and evidence and so much of what we see is really as I say I need your reaction, so we're trying to stop that from happening.
Jim Dillard
And I think that with regulation at the federal level which I am fairly familiar with and comfortable with and you put the responsibility in an agency that understands science and evidence and also processes and the opportunity for modified risk tobacco products is really a unique asset here in the United States, we're the only country that has both the framework and an agency that has the capability to assess obviously this type of product. And so I think it provides not only a unique opportunity here in the United States but a unique opportunity to set a worldwide standard which is certainly been in the case and other regulated products spaces where you see the world change based on the way in which the United States approaches modified risk Tobacco products. And I won't sort of reiterate what Marty said but I might give a specific example in both the scientific side and on the timing side that might help to frame this out a little bit.
One on the science side certainly our relationship with PMI and I'm looking at the [ICOS] devices probably the most developed that we have moving forward in the modified risk tobacco products space. by means our only effort but it's probably the most advanced at this point and it just shows that when you bring scientific collaboration together with engagement with the agency questions like how do you answer population risk questions start to become elucidated when you work with a federal regulator as well as good scientist in the industry in an academia. So there is a lot positive that's happening not only about advancing the modified risk tobacco product application but to really establish the science that is likely to be the benchmark as we think about moving forward in these particular categories.
The other comment on timing is one that for me just on a very recent experience, I think the agency is making quite a bit of progress. We were just notified last week by the agency that they had granted 23 marketing orders to PMUSA for various cigarette products that we've had in the substantial equivalents pipeline, these are for all alternate cigarette paper. So we do see the fact that the agency is starting to take action on products and other processes like substantial equivalence.
We also have engagement with the agency at that same time we were granted 23 orders, we had some orders that were not granted as well. So we continue in the process of learning from the agency, we think these are a bit more on the procedural area we think we will work through those with the agency as well but net-net what that's telling me as the agency is understanding their processes but they are understanding the science and they are starting to move forward to make decision. I think bodes well for the modified risk tobacco product process as well. And I think the tip sack is learning too. So I'm rather bullish both on the science and I think the timing is going to be as Marty stated sometime but the agency is moving forward.
Sarah Knakmuhs
Thanks Jim. So with that let's open it up to the audience for questions for any other panelists. Vivien.
Vivien Azer
My question is for Bruce, please. Hawaii just became the first state in the United States to take tobacco age to 21. So can you please offer a simple one color on how you engaged with regulators in Hawaii and more importantly number two, your view similarly proposed legislation that has been contemplated in another states?
Bruce Gates
Yes, that's an excellent question. We support 18 as a known age for the purchase of all tobacco products. We've made that clear, across the country we've made it clear in Hawaii, as you probably know Hawaii County had already raised the minimum age to 21 a year ago. So the state action was more or less the state of complete but we had engaged there. Hawaii is an interesting jurisdiction which to operate that legislature has some unique characteristics about the way they do their work, a lot of work gets them behind closed doors in Hawaii. But we've engaged across the country, there have been several states where it's been proposed and ultimately not enacted over the last few years. And we support the federal statutory minimum age of 18, as you know the FDA has been charged in that statuette to evaluate that they refer that work to the IOM earlier this year and receive the report and ultimately it's up to the FDA and at the Congress ultimately to determine whether the age should be changed.
Sarah Knakmuhs
We'll go to Chris and then we go over to Bill.
Chris Growe
A question for Jim, the tough standards the FDA has set for modified risk tobacco product the whole population risk assessment. Just curious on your views on that and if there's -- is there any product that will seem to me whether I regard as very high standard. And if I could add to that, I would consider that Altria has been very deliberate about new product activities historically. And with this framework with the FDA seem like this is really managed to be in the frontal [luber] here. So is the organization in a place where you can start moving on some of these products attending them through the FDA, rather kind of be more deliberately into the categories and all?
Jim Dillard
Yes, thanks Chris. Let me start with the first question. The standard for modified risk tobacco products when you think about it, I think all the way back working with a legislation in the very beginning, it required a higher standard. Obviously we're talking about a claim, we're talking about communication to adult tobacco consumers, science and evidence based perspectives. And so the standard should be higher than say substantial equivalent, a product is equivalent to something else on the market.
So we anticipated that standard would be high, we knew that the population based standard would be something that'd be new both for industry academia and obviously the government and it's not surprising that what we're seeing is the evolution of science that I think is going to set the standard for how we're going to execute against modified risk tobacco products and we're part of that, we're part of determining what that standard is and so we think the necessary science can be done, we're doing it, we're doing it with PMI on the [ICOS] device, but it's evolving.
The second question, tell me again what the second part was, we're sorry….
Chris Growe
It's just that Altria is more deliberate historically on the new products and just there's reason to move more quickly on it?
Jim Dillard
I would say we've been very deliberate on new products today as well. We have a number of applications before the agency, not just these 23 that have come out, we understand the process, remember any change we make to existing products on the market today have to go through the substantial equivalents process. So I would say we have been urgent and we have been disciplined on those products certainly as well. And I would say that sense of urgency is coming around to the innovation products too, but as you know we don't have a deem regulation yet. So we don't have the framework to be able to go to the agency and present products until that deeming regulation comes out. But I think that's coming probably this year.
Sarah Knakmuhs
Thank you for both your questions. Bill?
Jim Dillard
Thanks for the reminder.
Bill Marshall
Prior to 2009 I think general perception was that the communication between the tobacco industry and the government was barely combative and then with FDA regulation and Jim you just spoke towards at least theoretically opens the framework for a two-way dialogue. So I'm curious in other areas where you communicate with government, if you notice any change since 2009 as far as a tone or is it how the government maybe looks at the category with that legislation?
Jim Dillard
That's a thoughtful question and I think the answer is yes. I think the more separation there is in time from the environment of the 90's and the MSA day and the wrangling over how this statuette would ultimately look. And now there has been an improvement in the way we've communicated that hasn't eliminated the need to communicate and particularly as the state level and on taxes in particular, we have to be in there constantly to remind them why they shouldn't raise taxes on the products. But the quality of the dialogue certainly has improved. And I think our ability to respond with data driven answers has improved and that's always good for dialogue. So, yes, I think it's an excellent observation and it has in fact improved.
Denise Keane
Can I take step at that also, because I would even go back before 2009. I am someone who has worked on the MSA and I think that was a perfect example of a very sort of adversarial exchange that really did lay the foundation, if handled properly to start a dialogue. And quite honestly that was our strategy and it wasn't necessarily successful day one or day two or day three, but the approach we brought was to be consistent, to be upfront to try to establish credibility to deliver against what we said we were going to be do and we have not had compliance issues under the MSA because that has been a priority for the organization. And the fact that we can talk across the table to the state the fact that we were even able to get to the point of resolving some of our NPM settlements, I think it's part and parcel of the strategy that we have brought to try and understand our stakeholders and meet them in a place where we need to work together and hopefully in the process really build some credibility.
Sarah Knakmuhs
Do you want to add on this Jim?
Jim Dillard
No, I think really just more of a question outside FDA, I mean it certainly improved at the FDA.
Sarah Knakmuhs
Great. Michael?
Michael Lavery
I wondered if you could elaborate little bit on the FDA approvals you were refraining to and specifically the ones that you said that they weren't granted. Are those ones that are finally resolved at MNC [ph] or ones that are still coming back and forth and is there any risk of you having to take product off the shelf?
Jim Dillard
So just to set the context again real quickly. These are products that weren't on the market. They were for changes to existing cigarette products that are currently on the market. And what we submitted them for was changes in cigarette paper for supply security reasons. And so of these total was 31, 23 were granted and then eight we had some NFE decisions, so we're going back and forth with the agency on as you all probably know. FDA decisions are made public by the agency and NFE decisions are not and there are various procedures for administrative review. We're currently in that process with the agency, but they were all submitted for the same purposes. And really we think there are technical issues associated with the findings on the not substantially equivalent products.
Michael S. Lavery
And so you mean those things the ones you think can still be common, still end up getting granted in FDA?
Jim Dillard
We do that. I won't go into all the detail, all the different procedural options that we have, but the government has many procedural options based on decisions and particularly unfavorable decisions, so we'll be in that process for now some time.
Sarah Knakmuhs
We'll go to Judy, then we'll go over to Nik.
Judy Hong
Question for Jim, just in terms of the FDA priorities over the next 12 to 18 months, how do you envision that perhaps shifting as we get into the election year especially. And then I know we talked a lot about kind of the FDA's impact on the industry the delayed and timing in a lot of the decisions but from your perspective what positives has really come out from the FDA regulating the industry over the last several years?
Jim Dillard
So I think the place we go over the next 12 to 18 months are certainly in the area of what the agencies priorities are and what they're focusing on and clearly they focused on deeming regulation. I think we're likely to see that before the end of the year. They recently announced that they will be looking at the tobacco product manufacturing process regulations. They don't call them GMPs I guess they believe that you can't have good manufacturing practices for tobacco. So the TPMPs are looking to be published sometime beginning of the year and I think beyond that again I asked a lot of about menthol, menthol seems to be something whether is in process the agencies analyzing data.
We're still analyzing the comments but there doesn’t seem to be a sense of urgency on I moving forward with anything with menthol. So I would say catching up on the backlog on substantial equivalents I think is pretty high priority from this reseller as well. And one of the other mentions that he made at the NATO Conference, I sat on the panel with him and then he said they're working towards a purposed rule on a continuum of nicotine regulatory policy that he had mentioned they're trying to get published before the end of the year. So I would call those at least on my radar screen the ones that seems to be pretty much top priority in addition to obviously the science that they're doing in the work that they're doing within our age.
And then you asked about what I've seen that's been positive over the first six years if I had to step back, what I would say that the agency has moved with precision. They haven't moved too fast in a lot of areas which I think is good. They had to learn how to, number one, hire people, train people, crop up a center, learn what sort of regulatory processes they have. And then understand tobacco science and we and other manufacturers have been very plan-full about how to teach the regulators about what we do in the tobacco industry. And so there have been some good relationships that have started to be built up and down the organization.
Now I think we're getting to a point where while they've been plan-full and very scientific and very disciplined. I think we'd all like to see a little bit more need for decision making come out of that. But I think it set the framework and the standard for us to work in for years to come and I think they've done that in a methodical deliberative way which I fonder for.
Sarah Knakmuhs
All right Nik we've got time for one more quick question.
Nik Modi
And it is quick. Denise on angles and settlement, I'm just curious how much, how many resources were being dedicated to those particular cases just to get a sense of the kind of release that comes from [Seagull and Fuller] now that's been settled fully at the federal level.
Denise Keane
As you know that there are two tranches of cases, there's ones on the state level, the ones on the federal. The ones that we settled on the federal level there're about 420 cases left. And it was really the result of a whole variety of factors that were somewhat unique to the federal process. And the court has approved the settlement, we're waiting for the plaintiffs to come back and communicate whether or not their clients are in fact accepting the settlement.
Nik Modi
Can you give any context on the burden that was placed on Altria while these cases were going on?
Denise Keane
It kind of goes back to my conversation about infrastructure. Without a doubt the federal cases presented some velocity because as you may know there was a huge case activation process that was started by the administrative judge in charge of the federal cases. But we had really anticipated the fact that we are, we're going to have to be able to deploy numbers and be able to manage a volume of cases and we felt that we were able to do that. Without a doubt you know not having twelve cases a month is a nice thing. It gives you a little bit more flexibility but I have to say that I felt we were able to manage it and nonetheless I think the federal settlement was in the interest of everyone because of its real uniqueness. Does that answer your question?
Nik Modi
Kind of.
Sarah Knakmuhs
Well thank you very much to our panelists, thank you all for the thoughtful questions. And I'm going to now turn the program over to Howard.
Howard Willard
Thank you Sarah and each of our panelists. As we've been reminded throughout the day Altria has evolved considerably over time. Our 2007 and 2009 acquisitions of leading cigar and smokeless businesses brought new dimensions to our tobacco platform. Further adult tobacco consumer interest in innovative tobacco products led to our 2013 entry into the e-vapor category and acquisition of Green Smoke in 2014. Today our tobacco companies own leading premium brands across the most profitable tobacco segments. We'll provide a brief update on smokeless and cigar performance as well as the evolution of new marks e-vapor portfolio. And we'll spend the balance of our time understanding progress and results on Marlboro.
Beginning with smokeless, our 2009 acquisition of UST brought Altria instant access to premium brand leadership in the growing smokeless category and the exciting challenge of returning Copenhagen and Skoal to retail share growth. At the time Copenhagen had over 22% retail share, and adult dippers considered it to be the most masculine, premium and high quality smokeless brand. But Copenhagen also had an older demographic base and unsustainable price gap and a taste profile that some competitive dippers did not prefer. Since then USSTC has revitalized the value equations, including enhancing the equity campaign and product portfolio.
A new Chews Copenhagen campaign focused on the brand's essence, authentic, masculine craftsmanship. Copenhagen also entered the fast growing Wintergreen segment which enhanced its appeal to competitive dippers. Thanks to innovation and equity enhancing efforts the brand stands strong today with a remarkable 8 percentage points of share growth from 2009 to 2014.
Importantly during this period Copenhagen improved its demographic position by growing almost 10 retail share points among dippers aged 21 to 29. USSTC has also pursued greater stability on Skoal to strengthen the combined performance of its two premium brands. Beginning last year USSTC invested to enhance Skoal's equity and improved price gaps on Skoal Classic. Thus far Skoal's, A Pinch Better campaign is resonating with adult dippers. Our research shows that adult dippers are increasingly associating Skoal's, A Pinch Better tagline with the brand and that Skoal's image is improving among the roughly one-third of adult dippers who recall seeing a campaign ad.
While these things take time we are encouraged by the moderation we've seen in Skoal's retail share decline. These steps have been guided by USSTC's strategy to grow income by growing volume at or ahead of the category growth rate while maintaining modest share momentum on Copenhagen and Skoal combined. USSTC is performing well against these objectives.
First, when adjusted for trade inventory changes and other factors, USSTC grew volume approximately 5% on a compounded annual basis from 2009 through 2014. This is in line with our estimates for category volume growth over this period. Second, Copenhagen and Skoal grew combined retail share almost four percentage points from 2009 through 2014. And, finally, the combination of volume and share growth helped deliver solid adjusted operating companies income and margin growth. Adjusted operating companies income increased on a compounded annual basis by almost 11% from 2009 through
2014 and grew 5% in the first quarter of 2015. Likewise, over the past five years adjusted operating companies income margins improved almost 14 points, ending 2014 at over 63%. So we’ve made great progress strengthening our smokeless business and believe Copenhagen and Skoal are well positioned for the future.
Since our 2007 acquisition of John Middleton Co. (Middleton), the machine-made large cigars category has changed significantly. The category consists primarily of two segments: tipped and untipped cigarillos. Over the past few years, low-priced untipped cigarillos have dominated volume growth. As a result, Middleton has chosen to grow Black & Mild’s share of the high-margin tipped business. Middleton also focused on delivering the variety adult cigar smokers seek with the 2012 launch of Black & Mild Jazz and the recent expansion of Black & Mild Casino. Through these efforts and other equity investments, Middleton grew Black & Mild’s volume more than 6% in 2014 and over 10% in the first quarter of 2015, while also maintaining more than a 90% share of the tipped segment. So, we’re very pleased with Middleton’s performance in a dynamic environment. The past couple of years have also seen fast-paced evolution in the U.S. e-vapor category. We aspire to establish long-term leadership in e-vapor and other innovative tobacco products and we’re moving forward with purpose and discipline -- always learning from adult tobacco consumers. For example, we’ve learned that adult smokers and vapers are still searching for a product that meets their range of preferences. So Nu Mark is focused on delivering a portfolio of products to address these preferences.
Expanding on the merchandising and distribution platform Nu Mark built last year, the company introduced MarkTen XL into lead markets in specific chains in April. A new campaign, “Full On Vapor,” highlights MarkTen XL’s improved performance features -- twice the liquid and battery life as the current MarkTen - along with the familiar form, weight and draw that many adult smokers and vapers prefer. MarkTen XL also responds to their desire for more flavor variety with Classic, Menthol, Fusion and Winter Mint. Our 2014 acquisition of Green Smoke brings additional dimensions to Nu Mark’s portfolio. The Green Smoke brand adds a solid position in the online channel and enjoys some unique product features including FlavorMax technology, which creates consistent full-bodied flavor and a rich vapor. Green Smoke cartridges are also triple-sealed to enhance product quality, battery and cartridge performance.
Starting this week, Nu Mark is expanding Green Smoke’s retail distribution into specific chains in several lead markets with new packaging, an advantaged retail presence and new promotional tools. As a result, in select markets adult smokers and vapers will find a retail focus on either MarkTen XL or Green Smoke, allowing Nu Mark to learn which products and promotions are most effective. Also, as part of our agreement with PMI, we began providing our e-vapor products to PMI for international markets in the first quarter of this year. Today, the e-vapor category is still developing. Current products have performance gaps, the pace of category growth has slowed somewhat and manufacturers are awaiting regulatory guidance. However, we remain convinced that the desire adult smokers have for innovative tobacco products could one day be met with the right technology whether it’s e-vapor, heat-not-burn or something yet to be developed. So, we’re not betting on a single technology.
Let’s now turn to Marlboro. We’ve cultivated Marlboro as the most premium, flavorful and masculine cigarette for many years. In fact, Marlboro’s heritage is built on decades of bold and innovative actions. Marlboro, as you know it, began in 1954 with its repositioning as a man’s cigarette with a robust Richmond recipe for a flavorful experience, a unique filter tip and a one-of-a-kind flip-top box. The launch of the Marlboro Country campaign in 1963 firmly rooted the brand in the allure of the American West. Innovative Marlboro line extensions emerged, known today as Marlboro Menthol and Gold Pack.
Prints and billboard advertising unique in its day featured the campaign and Marlboro soon became the best-selling cigarette in the world. PM USA continued to make long-term investments to strengthen Marlboro including building one of the largest catalogue programs in the world through the Marlboro Milds consumer rewards platform and throughout the 1990s Marlboro established a robust proprietary adult smoker database, the foundation for the brand’s adult smoker outreach today. In 1998 PM USA and other manufacturers signed the MSA forever changing the way cigarette brands would be marketed and sold. So we innovated again, PM USA built a groundbreaking direct marketing platform for smokers 21 and older, reaching tens of millions of adult smokers in ways only Marlboro could. PM USA also invested in experiential marketing activity, including a racing school and a ranch in Montana to afford loyal adult smokers unforgettable Marlboro experiences.
By 2010, PM USA launched marlboro.com providing secure age verified platform to efficiently and responsibly connect Marlboro to adult smokers in the digital era. Thus long-term vision, innovation, and equity building investments help Marlboro become and remain the leading U.S. cigarette brand since 1976. Since that time Marlboro has more than doubled its share and grown in 31 of the past 38 years. So how do you keep growing a brand this big? Expand its reach and connect with both loyal and competitive adult smokers in new ways. In 2012 a new brand architecture featuring four flavor families provided the answer and opened exciting doors for Marlboro. Let's take a closer look at the evolution of Marlboro and results since then. The architecture created new ways to express Marlboro’s brand values which include masculinity, freedom and adventure.
These timeless values with universal appeal are the foundation for all of Marlboro’s marketing activities. Marlboro Red is the most authentic, flavorful and masculine of Marlboro’s flavor family. It grounds the brand in its rich and strong heritage. Marlboro Gold reflects the relaxation and harmony with nature found in Marlboro countries. Marlboro Green’s flavor makes night time an adventure and Marlboro Black embodies freedom and limitless opportunities in a bold modern take on Marlboro. The architecture not only expanded our thinking about Marlboro, but unlocked innovative ways to build the brand and connect with adult smokers. For example, the interactive 2013 wide-open flavor digital promotion introduced adult smokers to the full breadth of Marlboro’s flavor family. And adult smokers submitted more than 13 million comments and likes on marlboro.com, demonstrating new engagement possibilities.
Comments and likes were just the beginning as picture uploads, video submissions and user generated content promotions are now core to our brand building activity. Since PM USA launched the current marlboro.com platform at the end of 2012, user engagement activities have grown substantially to over 20 million. The brand also embraced modern articulations that even without the iconic cowboy were definitely Marlboro. Take Marlboro Black’s open road for example when PM USA firs