Altria Group (NYSE:MO)
CAGNY 2015 Conference
February 18, 2015 09:15 AM ET
Executives
Marty Barrington - CEO
Howard Willard - CFO
Dave Beran - COO
Bill Gifford - SVP, Strategy and Business Development
Murray Garnick - Sr. Vice President and Associate General Counsel, ALCS
Analysts
Vivien Azer - Cowen and Company
Matthew Grainger - Morgan Stanley
Judy Hong - Goldman Sachs & Company
Christopher Growe - Stifel Nicolaus
Nik Modi - RBC Capital Markets
Ann Gurkin - Davenport
Christopher Growe
Next up we have Altria presenting this morning. And I’d like to thank Altria’s for his sponsorship of CAGNY over the years, and especially for dinner tonight. This is one of those nights, we’re really glad to be on a wine business. Thank you, Altria in events for dinner tonight.
So I like to introduce Marty Barrington, the Chairman and CEO and President of the company and CFO, Howard Willard is here as well and with other management executives. Marty decided over a period of a very strong growth for the business and stability in its earnings growth. 2015 looks to continue that momentum in the business with strong expected growth in its smokeable segment and its continued investment in some new innovative products.
So let me turn over Marty now to tell you more about the strategy. Marty?
Marty Barrington
Good morning everyone. Thank you very much for the introduction Chris. I have to tell you it’s a very great pleasure to be back at CAGNY and with all of you. Several members of our management team joining me this morning including Howard Willard, Dave Beran, Bill Gifford and Murray Garnick. And in case you didn’t hear the news Dave will be retiring after 38 extraordinary years with the company. On March 1st Howard will succeed Dave as Chief Operating Officer and Billy will become Chief Financial Officer. We’ll all be available during the question-and-answer portion of this morning. And as Chris has pointed out we’re hosting dinner this evening which will be a great opportunity so spend some time together with us and with other members of the management team we brought with us.
As usual before we begin please review the Safe Harbor statement and the forward-looking and cautionary statements section in today’s press release for a description of the various factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from projections included in today’s remarks. Reconciliations and further explanations of the non-GAAP financial measures we discuss today are available on altria.com.
2014 was a very strong year for Altria and its shareholders, and we believe that Altria continues to be a terrific investment. Let’s take a quick look at 2014. We grew adjusted diluted earnings per share 8%. We grew our dividend 8.3% and paid shareholders $3.9 billion in dividends. The smokeable product segment grew adjusted operating company’s income 6.7%. Marlboro achieved record retail share of 43.8% larger than the next 10 brands combined. Copenhagen and Skoal combined achieved record retail share since the UST acquisition of 51.2% and we delivered total shareholder return of over 34%. We’re very pleased with these results and we’re very proud of our talented employees who produced them.
Of course Altria wasn’t strong just in 2014 for it has a remarkably strong track record of consistently delivering for our shareholders. So today we’ll discuss with you our long term financial goals, strategies, performance and our outlook for 2015. Our first long term financial goal is to grow adjusted diluted EPS at an average annual rate of 7% to 9% and since 2009 we’ve done just that, growing at a compounded annual rate of 8%. Our second long term goal is to maintain a target dividend payout ratio of approximately 80% of adjusted diluted EPS we remained focused on returning cash to shareholders through our strong and growing dividend.
Altria’s dividend payout ratio is the highest in the S&P Food Beverage and Tobacco Index. We’re proud to say we’ve increased the dividend 48 times in the past 45 years. And over the past five years our annualized dividend has grown at a compounded annual rate of 8.9%. We pursued three strategies in order to deliver against these financial goals. Our first is to maximize income from our core tobacco businesses over the long term. The second is to grow new income streams with the innovative tobacco products and our third strategy is to manage our diverse income streams and strong balance sheet to deliver consistent financial performance.
For context let’s compare Altria in terms of profitability, productivity and performance through the S&P’s Beverage and Food Indices. Doing so it shows that using the most recent comparable 12 month data Altria’s net income margins were up to 2.5 times wider, Altria is extremely efficient resulting in average net revenues per employee up to 3 times higher, free cash flow as a percentage of net revenues was also up to 3 times higher and Altria’s five year total shareholder return substantially outperformed beverage and food returns.
Altria operates within an attractive domestic tobacco industry our business benefits from generally low input cost and little currency exposure which helps to support continued growth of the U.S. tobacco profit pool. Over the past 5 years we estimate that the U.S. tobacco profit pool grew at a compounded annual rate of 5.5% to nearly $15.5 billion and in 2014 Altria gain more than half of that profit pool through our tobacco company’s strong positions across cigarettes, smokeless tobacco and machine made large cigars.
As we noted our first strategy is to maximize income from our core tobacco businesses over the long term. Let's begin with our smokeble product segment which includes cigarettes and machine made large cigars. The strategy for this segment is to maximize income while maintaining modest share momentum on Marlboro and Black & Mild over time. In 2014 the cigarette category exhibited stable fundamentals supported by a relatively calm excise tax and regulatory environment.
Philip Morris USA estimates that adjusted industry volume declined 3.5% consistent with the long term decline trend of 3% to 4%. PM USA performed very well against that backdrop. The smokeable products segment delivered 6.7% adjusted operating companies income growth and expanded adjusted OCI margins by almost two percentage points. From 2009 to 2014, adjusted OCI grew at a compounded annual rate of 4.5% and adjusted OCI margins expanded seven percentage points.
Our profit model in the smokeable product segment depends primarily on three key factors pricing, cost management and the remarkable Marlboro brand. PM USA's pricing was a strong growth contributor in 2014. Net revenues per 1,000 units grew 5.1% a bit ahead of the compounded annual growth rate of 4.4% since 2009. PM USA uses several tools to achieve its objectives, for example in 2014 it took two cigarette pricing actions totaling $0.13 per pack. Additionally, PM USA took measured steps in selected geographies to lower promotions behind some Marlboro offerings.
PM USA reduced special price promotions on Marlboro Special Blend in scores of states. While the reductions varied, they averaged $0.13 per pack. Additionally, PM USA invested modestly in some of its highly profitable portfolio brands to enhance overall mix. PM USA also steadily emphasizes cost management, in the smokeable product segment while controllable cost per 1,000 units increased about 3% last year, they held virtually flat since 2009. Additionally the end of the federal tobacco quota buyout payments will reduce the cost of goods sold by approximately $300 million versus 2014.
PM USA has invested steadily to strengthen Marlboro, and those investments are paying dividends. Today, at almost 44 retail share points, Marlboro is larger than the next 10 cigarette brands combined and is the largest brand in every state. PM USA established a new Marlboro architecture in 2012 featuring four unique flavor families; red, gold, green and black to enhance the brand’s momentum and relevance.
To better understand how the architecture comes to live we'll take a closer look at two of the Marlboro flavor families, which strong demographics among adult smokers 21 to 29 beginning with Marlboro black. Marlboro Black family is a prime example of how the architecture has added dimension to the brand for both loyal and competitive adult smokers with its bold personality Marlboro Black has enhanced Marlboro's position among adult smokers 21 to 29 and contributed to innovation with Marlboro NXT and Marlboro Edge.
In addition to its retail presence and vivid packaging, Marlboro Black engages smokers 21 and older to tailored direct mail and digital communications and adult only experiences at the Marlboro Black Lounge.
Innovation and expanded use of adult smoker engagement programs also have benefited the Marlboro Green family, which operates in the growing menthol segment. Marlboro Green’s “Flavor Makes the Night” campaign expresses a different, more extroverted side of Marlboro to connect with the social, menthol adult smoker. Using digital tools, age-verified adult smokers can locate Marlboro nightlife promotions. They receive tips from nightlife experts, known as Flavor Makers on Marlboro.com, and can enter for a chance to win an once-in-a-lifetime trip to the Marlboro Ranch in Montana.
Recently, the brand expanded its menthol offerings with Marlboro Menthol Rich Blue in 28 states. Marlboro highlights Rich Blue and the Green Family at retail, including through vibrant imagery designed to appeal to both loyal and competitive adult smokers. Collectively, these efforts have strengthened Marlboro’s relevance, engagement and share among adult menthol smokers.
We’ve discussed Marlboro Black and Green, but each of Marlboro’s flavor families efficiently and responsibly connects with smokers 21 and older including through digital tools. By investing in mobile technology Marlboro increased mobile logins 10 fold since 2011. Although the details are proprietary Marlboro.com mobile logins were in the millions in 2014 just to give you some perspective. And through our large proprietary adult smoker database Marlboro.com continues to be among the leading CPG websites in average number of unique visitors.
Investments like these have grown Marlboro’s retail share over time consistent with its strategy and maintained its leading equity. In our annual review of brand equity done by the market research firm TNS Marlboro outperformed key competitors again in 2014. These brand equity scores help us gain a deeper understanding of key aspects of brand strength. Importantly, Marlboro also maintained strong equity score among adult smokers ages 21 to 29 which are both higher than competitors and higher than Marlboro scores among adult smokers overall.
In machine-made large cigars, John Middleton Co.’s (Middleton) Black & Mild brand continued to lead in the tipped segment in 2014, growing its segment retail share about 2.5 points versus 2013, to over 91%. Black & Mild’s performance also helped grow cigars shipment volume over 6% since 2013. Middleton invested to expand the Black & Mild tipped franchise in 2012 with Black & Mild Jazz, which contributed to its strong performance. And, Middleton is now expanding Black & Mild Casino nationally to further its momentum.
Over the past five years, Black & Mild’s retail share declined about a half a share point annually due to competitive pressure, primarily from low-priced untipped cigars. However, by innovating on its flagship Black & Mild tipped cigars and prioritizing profit ahead of share, Middleton continues to strengthen its position in the category.
Before we leave the smokeable products segment, a brief word on litigation. A comprehensive discussion of tobacco-related litigation is found in the financial statements we filed with our Form 8-K on January 30. Today, we’ll touch briefly on the so-called lights class actions and Engle-progeny litigation.
In 2014, we obtained dismissals of the remaining lights cases that were pending in federal court. In state court, there are only a handful of such cases that remain. One, Aspinall in Massachusetts may be tried later this year. In Miles/Price, the Illinois Supreme Court granted review of the Fifth District Court of Appeals’ decision to reinstate the prior 2003 judgment. As a reminder, the Illinois Supreme Court already vacated that judgment once eight years ago, and we believe that we have compelling arguments why that judgment should not be reinstated now.
In the Engle-progeny cases, we achieved substantial success in managing these suits, although there were some losses in 2014. Of the 9,400 Engle-progeny claims originally filed in 2008, less than half remain actively pending, mostly in state court. In 2014, we obtained either a defense verdict or a mistrial in more than half of the cases tried. A federal appeals court affirmed the dismissal of almost 750 cases. We expect the Engle-progeny cases to remain active for the next several years.
To sum up on litigation, in 2014, we continued to effectively manage the environment, although significant challenges remain. We will continue to protect the interests of our shareholders by vigorously defending these claims.
Turning to the smokeless products segment, USSTC strategy is to increase income by growing volume at or ahead of the category and to maintain modest share momentum on Copenhagen and Skoal combined. USSTC owns the two leading premium smokeless brands. Copenhagen is the most masculine, iconic smokeless tobacco brand. In 2014, Copenhagen achieved 30.8 retail share points and Skoal, which celebrated its 80th birthday last year, had a 20.4% share.
The smokeless category is growing. From 2009 through 2014, USSTC estimates that category volume grew at a compounded annual rate of approximately 5%. In 2014, that growth rate slowed to about 2%. Despite a lower growth rate, USSTC delivered against its strategy. USSTC grew smokeless volume ahead of the category at approximately 2.5%, when adjusted for trade inventory and other factors. It also grew combined retail share on Copenhagen and Skoal by five tenths to 51.2%. And the smokeless products segment delivered adjusted OCI growth of 3.3%.
USSTC also continued to invest in the equities of Copenhagen and Skoal to drive their combined performance. In 2014, Copenhagen continued to post terrific results. Despite investment in Skoal and competitive spending, Copenhagen increased its retail share by 1.5 percentage points versus 2013. Investments to expand the brand through Copenhagen Long Cut Wintergreen and Copenhagen Long Cut Straight have attracted competitive adult dippers to the brand and contributed to its strong share performance.
Skoal introduced its new A Pinch Better equity campaign in 2014 that is generating strong awareness among adult dippers. Skoal reinforced A Pinch Better through successful equity enhancing promotions and coupled the campaign with a plan to reduce price gaps between Skoal Classic and the leading discount brand in several geographies. Thus far, Skoal is showing signs of moderating its share declines. Of course, brands are strengthened and built over time and we remain focused on enhancing Skoal’s overall contribution.
USSTC further supports Copenhagen and Skoal’s brand equities, particularly among adult dippers ages 21 through 29, through mobile engagement. For example, adult dippers used their mobile device to enter Copenhagen’s; own the Hunt promotion. Similarly, Skoal garnered its highest number of sweepstakes entries for the; 80 Days of Saturdays promotion, in part through mobile engagement. As a result of these investments, mobile logins among adult dippers of both brands increased 680% versus 2013.
In both the smokeable and smokeless products segments, we’ve invested in both our brand equities and our sales and distribution capability. In fact, over many years, excellent retail execution has been part of our success formula. This includes developing a leading sales organization and offering mutually beneficial trade programs for our companies and trade partners.
In our two largest categories, cigarettes and smokeless tobacco, our retail coverage model addresses 95% of total volume and includes approximately 240,000 stores. That broad coverage and a highly efficient distribution network translate into speed to market. In recent national expansions for Marlboro Edge and Copenhagen Southern Blend, our sales group achieved over 85% distribution in targeted stores in just two weeks, and more than 90% shortly after that. So it’s clear that our sales organization provides a competitive advantage.
So our approach is to maximize these strong tobacco businesses, while innovating for the future. Today, the performance of our large and successful core tobacco businesses helps fund our second long-term strategy of growing new income streams with innovative tobacco products, while delivering on our long term financial goals. Let’s demonstrate how we do this in the context of the e-vapor category.
First, from a category perspective, we estimate approximately $2 billion in e-vapor consumer spending last year, which represents compounded annual growth of 90% since 2011. That’s an eye-catching growth rate, of course. Though from a dollar perspective, $2 billion in e-vapor spending in the U.S. is very small compared with $86 billion in estimated total tobacco spending. But it’s wise to invest in the promise it may hold.
Second, adult smokers and vapers have a variety of performance, taste and form expectations for e-vapor products. Given the relatively low rates of adoption in e-vapor, it’s pretty clear that today’s e-vapor products generally are falling short of fully meeting their expectations.
Third, brand loyalty remains low and is a key opportunity. As proof of that, we need only remember that five different brands have claimed the title of being the leading e-vapor brand between 2011 and 2014.
Our aspiration in e-vapor and other innovative tobacco products is to succeed in the long term. So that informs our judgment about how to proceed with dispatch, but in a financially disciplined way, always listening to and learning from the adult tobacco consumer. Products are an essential first step, as are distribution and brand-building. We also believe that a portfolio approach is wiser than a single technology bet.
So, Nu Mark began by introducing MarkTen e-vapor products for those adult smokers and vapers who want a familiar experience. MarkTen has the look and feel of a cigarette and includes FourDraw technology for a familiar draw. Over the past year, Nu Mark evolved MarkTen based on feedback from adult smokers and vapers, adding, for example, an offering with 2.5% nicotine by weight and a personal charging case.
Now, combining technology from MarkTen and Green Smoke Nu Mark is further strengthening its product portfolio. Adult vapers are seeking a longer lasting battery, more flavor variety and more value from their cartridge. In response, Nu Mark expects to begin shipping its next generation e-vapor device, MarkTen XL, into a lead market in the second quarter. MarkTen XL has a larger format that delivers twice the liquid and battery life as the current MarkTen and comes in four varieties; Classic, Menthol, Fusion and Winter Mint. It also offers the familiar form, weight and draw that many adult smokers and vapers prefer.
Second, we’ve established MarkTen e-vapor products as a national brand. MarkTen is now available in over 130,000 stores, and the national e-vapor distribution platform we’ve built will enable future growth. Again, though it’s too early in the category’s evolution to focus unduly on share leadership, it’s worth pointing out that MarkTen ranked among the top e-vapor brands nationally based on market share as of year-end 2014.
The Green Smoke brand, with its solid position in the online channel, adds further dimension to Nu Mark’s portfolio. We’ve been very pleased with the adult tobacco consumer response to Green Smoke. Later this year we plan to expand Green Smoke retail distribution and test new packaging and promotional tools, so expect more details on these plans in the coming months.
Third, we’re optimizing our supply chain to support our product portfolio. This is another area where Green Smoke has added immediate value. Through the Green Smoke acquisition, Nu Mark has improved its supply chain efficiency, diversification and cost structure. And in light of pending FDA regulation, Nu Mark is investing in a robust product quality system, which is validated by the strong feedback from adult tobacco consumers on MarkTen’s quality and consistency.
And we’ve also brought our substantial regulatory capabilities to bear on the e-vapor category. This includes advocacy with the FDA and other stakeholders, encouraging states to adopt a minimum age for purchasing e-vapor products, and establishing strict product standards.
We’re nearing the first anniversary of FDA’s proposed e-vapor deeming regulation, about which the agency says it has received more than 135,000 comments. In our engagement with FDA and others, we’ve advocated that the final rule should include a common sense approach to harm reduction, based on science and evidence. We support an approach to regulation that recognizes differences in product types, creates a level playing field among diverse product types and trade channels; supports the right of informed adults to make choices and encourages manufacturers to continue innovating to bring potentially lower-risk products to market. We believe the public health potential here is significant and that FDA has an unprecedented opportunity.
E-vapor is, of course, but one aspect of the portfolio of innovative tobacco products we’re developing. Our approach considers a range of products, which may satisfy different adult tobacco consumer segments for different reasons and under different circumstances. That’s why, for example, our companies are also executing their U.S. plans for Philip Morris International’s next generation platform products.
This technology provides yet another alternative for adult smokers. It offers a familiar tobacco taste for adult smokers with no ash. We’re supporting PMI in the research needed for a modified risk tobacco product application to the FDA. We’re also developing brand and go-to-market strategies, and will share more on our companies’ plans when the time is right. This work also is providing important learnings and building our capability to succeed in the new environment of FDA regulation of modified-risk tobacco products.
Also, with regard to our licensing and distribution agreement with PMI relative to e-vapor products, Nu Mark expects to begin shipping e-vapor products to PMI for the international market later this quarter. And we understand PMI will discuss these plans in more detail this afternoon.
As you know, our core tobacco companies’ brands are leaders in the categories in which they operate. We have the same long-term aspiration for Nu Mark’s innovative tobacco products. That’s why we’re investing in e-vapor and working with PMI, with our combined decades of research and development, on heat-not-burn products.
Providing adult tobacco consumers with products that carry less risk than traditional cigarettes is not a new goal. But today many of the elements are in places that are needed to help make that goal a reality. Adult tobacco consumers are interested in innovative tobacco products. The regulatory framework is now in place in the U.S. to assess whether a product is less harmful and guide us in how to communicate with adult tobacco consumers. New technologies are showing promise. As adult tobacco consumer preferences continue to evolve, we’ll continue to embrace the opportunities and challenges of bringing them lower risk tobacco products.
Finally, pursuing these strategies, maximizing the core while innovating for the future, demands attention to productivity. Through two large programs between 2007 and 2013, Altria reduced costs by approximately $2 billion. Today, we’re continuing to streamline, balance and invest. We’re examining every opportunity to simplify our business, including redesigning more than 100 large and small processes from packaging development to budgeting. We’re managing headcount carefully, cross-training and realigning people to where they’re best needed.
And we’re investing appropriately in our priorities. For example, while we’re working to improve e-vapor margins, we expect to continue making disciplined investments in innovative tobacco products. This includes investing in new product development; awareness and trial and the regulatory science needed to advance our aspiration of bringing FDA approved, reduced-risk products to market. All the while, we are continuing to pursue -- and have been delivering against our long-term financial objective of growing adjusted diluted earnings per share 7% to 9%.
Now, I’ll turn the podium over to Howard for a review of our final strategy and outlook for 2015.
Howard Willard
Thanks, Marty. Our final strategy is to manage our diverse income streams and strong balance sheet to deliver consistent financial performance. Our diverse business model sets Altria apart from its peers and provides flexibility to support consistent earnings delivery. The strength of our tobacco business provides the foundation for our earnings results. In 2014, the combination of our smokeable and smokeless products segments generated revenues net of excise taxes of over $17 billion and reported operating companies income of almost $8 billion.
Additionally, Altria’s earnings benefit from our unique position in the wine and beer categories. As we’ll reinforce at tonight’s dinner, Altria owns Ste. Michelle Wine Estates, a leading domestic wine producer, importer and distributor. Its premium wineries include Chateau Ste. Michelle, Columbia Crest, 14 Hands and Stag’s Leap Wine Cellars.
Together, their wines received more than 180 ratings of 90 or better in 2014. In fact, the Wine Advocate recently awarded the 2012 Stag’s Leap Cask 23 Cabernet with the highest rating in the company’s history
Ste. Michelle grew adjusted operating companies income 13.6% last year and approximately 13% on a compounded annual growth basis since 2009. So Ste. Michelle has continued to deliver strong performance. This is a great business, if small for Altria.
As you know, Altria also holds approximately a 27% stake in SABMiller. Equity earnings from our investment in SABMiller have been a nice contributor to Altria’s earnings per share over time. From 2009 to 2014, reported earnings from this investment grew at a compounded annual rate of 10.9%.
In 2014, Altria recorded pre-tax earnings from SABMiller of more than $1 billion. And over the past five years, the market value of our stake has grown at a compounded annual rate of over 12% to $22.5 billion at year-end 2014.
As we’ve said many times, we regularly evaluate our SABMiller investment and, at this time, we believe maintaining the asset is in our shareholders’ best interest. Of course, we’re also well aware of speculation respecting global beer consolidation and how that might affect our investment in SABMiller. Our goal always has been and remains to manage this investment in a way that delivers the best value for Altria’s shareholders.
Historically, our financial services business has contributed to our diverse business model. Looking ahead, however, we continue to expect lower gains on asset sales from Philip Morris Capital Corporation which has been winding down its operation since 2002. The net finance receivable has decreased from $9.4 billion in 2002 to $1.7 billion in 2014. We expect the income contribution from the business to be uneven going forward as underlying lease income continues to decline and the opportunity for additional asset sales diminishes.
In recent years, Altria has taken opportunities to restructure and reduce debt to enhance its balance sheet and credit rating. In 2014, $825 million of debt was retired. Altria also issued $1 billion aggregate principal amount in new low-coupon debt. As a result of these and other capital markets transactions in recent years, we’ve reduced our weighted average coupon rate from 9.1% at the end of 2009 to 5.7% at the end of 2014 and, last March, Standard & Poor’s upgraded Altria to Triple B+.
Our strong balance sheet supports our ability to return cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. In 2014, as mentioned, Altria paid shareholders nearly $4 billion in dividends and once again our Board of Directors raised the dividend -- which currently stands at an annualized rate of $2.08 per share. We also repurchased nearly $1 billion in shares and had $518 million remaining in the current $1 billion program at the end of 2014. During the past five years, combined dividends and share repurchases totaled more than $21 billion. Both dividends and share repurchases are subject to the discretion of Altria’s Board.
Looking to 2015, we begin the year by watching several dynamics. First, at the macro level, broad economic indicators in the U.S. are moving in the right direction. Adult tobacco consumers are seeing their economic conditions improve modestly, including due to the significant decline in gas prices. As Marty mentioned, PM USA has taken pricing actions and lowered promotional support behind some Marlboro offerings as it continues to balance maximizing profitability and share growth. So our businesses expect some modest improvement in 2015 due to the economy.
Second, adult tobacco consumers continue to explore the options available to them. While cigarettes are by far the largest and most profitable tobacco category, the development of the e-vapor category is evidence of that exploration. Thus far, we do not believe that this exploration has significantly impacted volume in the cigarette category, which has remained stable over the past several years at an annual decline rate of between 3% and 4%.
Third, I’ll touch on taxes. The state excise tax environment has remained relatively stable for the past several years. State weighted excise taxes per pack of cigarettes have grown at a compounded annual rate of 4.5% since 2009. Thus far in 2015, 19 state and local cigarette excise tax increase proposals have been introduced. State budgets continue to face pressure and changes are very difficult to forecast, so we remain watchful on this issue at the start of each year.
In summary, our diverse business model and strong balance sheet have supported Altria’s consistent performance over time. In 2015, we believe that our strong, distinct capabilities will allow us to navigate the external environment effectively and that we’re well positioned to continue our track record of delivering solid EPS growth. Therefore, we reaffirm our expectation to deliver adjusted diluted EPS in a range of $2.75 to $2.80, representing growth of 7% to 9% from our 2014 adjusted diluted EPS base of $2.57.
Now I’ll turn the podium back to Marty for final remarks.
Marty Barrington
Thanks, Howard. In summary, in 2014, Altria once again demonstrated the consistent strength of its business. We believe Altria continues to be a compelling investment, offering both earnings growth and a solid dividend yield. We remain focused on consistently delivering strong shareholder returns. Over the past five years, Altria’s total shareholder return of 230% outperformed both the S&P 500 and the S&P Food, Beverage and Tobacco Index.
Our position within the profitable U.S. tobacco industry makes this possible. No other company in our industry has the brands, the market leadership and the talented employees our companies have. Our core tobacco business is strong thanks to investments we’ve made in the premium brand equities of Marlboro, Black & Mild, Copenhagen and Skoal, which continue to sustain strong margins. We’re innovating for our future, in particular by building a leading position in the e-vapor category over time. And through our diverse business model, strengths in one business can offset a period of softness in others, enabling Altria to deliver consistent performance.
Thanks for your attention. Again we look forward to hosting dinner this evening and, now, we’ll gladly take your questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Q - Vivien Azer
In thinking about your Marlboro strategy, you guys have been unbelievably consistent in terms of the communication around it as well as the execution on it. And I know you guys don’t like to talk about individual lines within the Marlboro brand family. But can you, at least in the architecture of the four larger brand families could you talk about how the market share targets apply to each one?
Marty Barrington
Yes, let me talk for just a minute about the architecture and then Dave you may want to comment as well. Just to get everybody re-grounded I know you’re familiar with it than others perhaps less so is that we have four flavor families it was done back in 2012 to try to make sure that a brand this big is being relevant in the most powerful way and continuing its status and momentum forward. It’s been really successful I have to tell you. Folks who are in the red franchise are happy to be in the red franchise but you know the addition of Black is the best example that we talked about in our remarks.
We don’t break the shares out at that level Vivien but we can tell you for example Marlboro Black as I think we said has been a great contributor particularly amongst adult smokers 21 to 29. Its brand equity is strong and I’ll tell you, for our marketer; we’ve arranged our marketers to work in that architecture. They can do executions on Marlboro Black that frankly you probably wouldn’t do in other parts of the franchise. So it’s expanded the breath, if you will and it’s expanded the freedom to innovate with the brand all the while being staple to its positioning, come to where the flavors.
Matt and then we’ll go to Judy.
Matthew Grainger
Thanks Marty, I just wanted to stick on Marlboro and just come back to their brand equity illustration that you showed earlier, can you dimensionalize how that's improved over the past several years as a result of brand architecture and relative to your competitive brand like Camel for instance is also receiving a lot of brand equity investments, how does it perform on a relative basis. And then lastly just stick on Black, with the economic backdrop improving, I realizing that the architecture goes well beyond pricing, but is that an area where we should expect to see a lower emphasis going forward?
Marty Barrington
So there is a lot there, let me see if I can break that out. We do the TNS study every year we've got five years’ worth of data now I think as I said I saw -- and in fact Marlboro continues to improve over time and that's important because remember it's improving off at a highest base, you saw the chart is higher than any other competitive brand and it's actually been slightly strengthening over time and that's hard to do high [based space]. I would also tell you, it has a high absolute score so for example that's a brand equity study that's done across other CPG categories. It's a very high score on an absolute basis, it’s a high score on a relative basis versus competition and it's an improving score over time.
So, if you look at what we've done with the brand, Dave is always reminding us about how brand equity is built over time and he is right. But if you look at what we've done with the flavor family, what we've done on Marlboro.com, what we've done on mobile, what we've done on Marlboro Black. I don't think there is any question that has come together in a very powerful way to improve the equity. Let me think what I'm leaving out; over time on a relative basis in Marlboro Black, fair?
Matthew Grainger
Okay, thanks.
Judy Hong
Two questions, first, I guess if you look at the total tobacco category maybe we've seen a little bit more cost category movement recently; you've got smokeless tobacco that’s slowed down. Obviously, the e-vapor is evolving pretty quickly, so can you give us your perspectives on what are you seeing from a consumer perspective? Are we seeing more switching, are we seeing more dual users or triple users in terms of the occasion and as you think about your portfolio and really trying to adapt to sort of the change in consumer preference, how would you think about really being nimble and more quick to adopt to that situation?
Marty Barrington
Okay, I think the key answers to that question are that, adult tobacco consumers are continuing to explore on the categories there is no question that smokers are exploring, smokeless for example and they're exploring vapers and there are dual -- with restrictions being in place the way they are people are finding different products for different moments there is a lot of that going on even within the conventional space and then clearly as we point out in our remarks this morning, adult tobacco consumers are looking for innovative tobacco products, vaper being but one. We could talk about heat-not-burn; we have [indiscernible] in the test market, there just continuous to be a lot of exploration there.
Strategically what that means for us is a total tobacco platform premium brands, great products that's how we think about our business.
Judy Hong
And then just related to the [indiscernible] that you have relationship with PMI, what are some of the milestones that you're looking at in terms of the step in the timing of the launch?
Marty Barrington
We leave [indiscernible] is probably to the PMI presentation out of respect for them, but clearly in the U.S one milestone has to be the submission of the modified risk tobacco applications and then hopefully it's approval. Those will be the two big occasions and meanwhile as I said this morning we're working very hard on brand positioning, go-to-market strategies so that when we get those approvals and I hope we will, we’ll be ready to go-to-market.
Michael?
Unidentified Analyst
Can you speak a little bit about the pacing of buybacks over the course of this year and specifically if you've done any year-to-date? And then secondly you've spoken in the past about Marlboro's [ASU30] share can you give an update on where that sits now?
Marty Barrington
Okay, thank you, just gives me opportunity to get others involve, why don’t we do Howard and then Dave.
Howard Willard
Sure, with regard to buyback, we ended 2014 with $518 million left in our current buyback and I think we previously communicated that we expect to complete that by the end of the year and you don't provide further detail on pacing.
Marty Barrington
Dave, you want to talk about adult smoker?
Dave Beran
Adult smokers here, if we go back to the Marlboro architecture that was put in place in 2012, we've seen positive results on the total brand and on Marlboro Black.
Unidentified Analyst
Thanks Marty, just one quick question on the licensing to PMI, how that you recorded on the P&L so we get a sense of where it will be when you guys report?
Dave Beran
Yes, I think in the end it will be part of operating company’s income.
Unidentified Analyst
Alright, and then the broader question, clearly Marty, Special Blend has been a big part of the EPS algorithm and obviously the stock price and I know a lot of folks in this room are always wondering how high it's high and how flat can this go. So I don't think anyone really have the answer maybe you can just give us context on two things; number one on special blends. How much more promotional reduction is there and number two if you just give us some context in the high price states and is Marlboro still gaining share in some of those states, maybe that just kind of conceptualize if there is still a lot opportunity left.
Marty Barrington
I’m going to come at that just a little bit differently if you let me to do that; I’ll try to get what you’re asking about. I was reminded the other day when I was looking at Marlboro pricing around the world actually what the price structure is in the United States and it’s a reminder to us here actually that there is pretty long run way I believe for pricing overall in [indiscernible] pricing of Marlboro in the UK is probably $13, U.S. and Switzerland 9 and so forth.
So I do think that there is room for pricing there. Special Blend as you know was brought out and promoted as high as $1 a pack during the terrible recession to make sure that folks in the franchise had a place to go. You see we’ve taking it down on the average $0.13 in certain geographies, that’s always that exclusive balance between keeping modest share momentum on Marlboro while always trying to maximize income and our talented folks at PM USA have very highly developed tools to try that model, just what that is but it always starts with the orientation towards income.
And when you say high price states I guess from that high excess tax states. High excess states, they are always a special challenge obviously, if we go to states like New York and the real problem there is what you’ll seeing in international markets which is a lot of volume just doesn’t go through the regular retail change, so it’s always hard to measure.
Christopher Growe
I had a question for you please on Marlboro as well and you have used new varieties, new extensions for that brand and we haven’t had much help in way of potential equivalents. So just to understand your pipeline there and if you have more to come through ‘15 and then related to that Marlboro Rich Blue I believe is across roughly half the U.S. Is that intended to go across the whole U.S. in ‘15?
Marty Barrington
Okay. Maybe I’ll take the pipelining question and Dave you say more about Rich Blue. So our pipeline remains robust I’ll say what I said about this every time somebody asked me back in 2007, 2008, 2009 we were pretty plan full about what the environment might like, I also think Chris it’s going to pick up, substantial equivalent approvals I think have to pick up from the agency we communicate with and regularly, but we’ve got a full pipeline. Dave you want to talk about Rich Blue?
Dave Beran
Rich Blue, we introduced Rich Blue in approximately 22 states in the northeast, east and south and as far as future plans; wait and see. And knowing May, I consider that competitively sensitive, so wait and see for remainder of this year.
Marty Barrington
I know you’re going to say this, so watch this I’ll say something to give you something more. It’s a great product, it’s off to a great start and we’ll see. But when we have great products off to great start you’d expect that we will try to maximize the investment.
Nik?
Nik Modi
Thanks Marty. You mentioned a portfolio approach in e-vapor is better so if you look out over the next couple of years how do you envisioned building this portfolio? Will it be mainly organically or will be it via acquisitions or some combination? And then could you give us a sense of how full your innovations pipeline is right now in e-vapor, certainly you mentioned you’re rolling out MarkTen XL, but is there more in the pipeline?
Marty Barrington
Sure. Thanks for that question. I’m actually very encouraged by what we have in the pipeline. We have a lot of work underway to support Nu Mark and then with the Green Smoke acquisition one of reasons we really like Green Smoke is they really have good ideas for the pipeline that product as you know has been very well received in the market place. So between the two of them and there is a lot of space there right now. I’m very encouraged about the pipeline from vaper, you saw the announcement this morning just about MarkTen XL, I think that’s what you’ve written about it, that’s what we should expect people are going to be innovating to give folks the products within want.
Listen, we have terrific R&D capability and we’re working hard on things but we’re not so vain to think that we have cornered every great idea in our space and so we’re open always to ideas and if they make sense to tap on, we’re open to that.
Nik Modi
Okay. Thank you. And then can I just ask another quick question on the potential for future NPM settlement where you guys stand with that, is there run for more region from settlements with additional states?
Marty Barrington
Well, that’s a complicated topic and low even to go winter NPM just about the time I level say to anyone, it will be lunch time. So look there is always a possibility that the other states may resolved and everybody is I know trying to work hard on that. It’s a very complex situation with the Attorney’s General in the states as you know, we’re not interested in litigating matters like that over the next 10 years and we’ve only got -- I think done with what Howard 2003 so far? So, I don’t know Murray if you feel differently about?
Murray Garnick
No, I feel exact.
Unidentified Company Representative
All right, Murray supports my observation that’s a very complex situation and it’s going to take some to unravel, thank you for that support Murray well done.
Other questions? Ann?
Ann Gurkin
Thank you, Marty. I have two questions; one, talking about the MSC category and the slowdown we saw last year. Realizing there are dual adult consumer users and some of that trials, just curious your thoughts, if you think it’s a permanent slowdown in trend if there is enough data to make any kind of decision right now and how you’re thinking about that as you build out models over the next couple of years for MSC. And then the second topic if you think about the combustible portfolio, where do you look at white spaces if you’ll share that, is it geographies pricing? You’ve done a lot of innovation across the Marlboro portfolio. So if you could help me think about where there are opportunities for growth in that area?
Marty Barrington
Sure. Two good questions. Listen when we showed the chart that tag I think for MSC growth over the last year was about 5 and then about mid-year in ’14 it slowed down and for the year we estimate about 2. I think it’s kind of more behind Judy’s question, which is do they have more choices now. So you do see people moving between categories and they do explore. I think two quarters for us is probably not enough data to know what I would tell you though is we’ve noticed the data point we’re monitoring it carefully and we naturally have contingency plans in place versus our plans if it turns out slowdown in something more than two quarters as you would expect.
The way we think about white space in innovation is always to look at our portfolio, look to see if there are opportunities that were under indexed or underrepresented and that we can put a product in that would help us to modestly improve our position in the combustible space while not getting in the way of our long term financials to maximize income that’s kind of how we think about it.
Murray Garnick
We do have time for one more if there is one more question.
Marty Barrington
We have this gentlemen right here.
Unidentified Analyst
As a large SAB shareholder and representing your shareholders and you nominate representatives to the SAB board and their various committees. How active or passive are you in all of the Brouhaha discussions that are going on now within the beverage world with SAB and Heineken, talk of others involved there or the possible combinations and permutations of joining up?
Marty Barrington
I knew I was going to get an SAB Brouhaha question. I think the answer is we have three board sits there. Howard has one, Dave participate actively on that board as you might expect it would to fill their feudatory duties at SAB and I think Howard was pretty eloquent this morning in saying how we think about it, which is we’re always looking out for the Altria shareholder. We will do what’s best for the Altria shareholder, but in the last several years of course it’s been terrific investments performed very well but if you’ve been following Altria for any period of time I hope you would know that we’re ready for all scenarios and we’ll do what’s best for the shareholders.
Unidentified Analyst
Thank you, Marty and thank you Altria.
Marty Barrington
Thank you for your attention everyone.
Murray Garnick
Thank you. Altria will be in the breakout room as well for some further Q&A.
Copyright policy: All transcripts on this site are the copyright of Seeking Alpha. However, we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists, and are excited to contribute to the democratization of financial information on the Internet. (Until now investors have had to pay thousands of dollars in subscription fees for transcripts.) So our reproduction policy is as follows: You may quote up to 400 words of any transcript on the condition that you attribute the transcript to Seeking Alpha and either link to the original transcript or to www.SeekingAlpha.com. All other use is prohibited.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL, CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION, AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS. IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.