Regions Financial Corporation (NYSE:RF)
2013 Goldman Sachs US Financial Services Conference Transcript
December 10, 2013 8:40 AM ET
Executives
Grayson Hall - President and CEO
David Turner - Chief Financial Officer
John Owen - Head, Lines of Business
List Underwood - Investor Relations
Dana Nolan - Investor Relations
Analysts
Ryan Nash - Goldman Sachs
Ryan Nash - Goldman Sachs
Okay. Next we have Regions Financial. Regions reached several key milestones this year as its loan growth inflected. It has now begun to grow again. It began returning capital and while the industries faced significant amount of margin pressure, Regions is actually one of the few bank who is actually seeing its margin expand in 2013.
Over the next year, we expect the Regions started to transition from a credit recovery story to one more focused on topline growth. Here to tell us more about some of these initiatives are Grayson Hall, President and CEO; David Turner, CFO; and John Owen, Head of Lines of Business. Also joining us from the company are List Underwood and Dana Nolan from Investor Relations.
So, with that, I’ll turn it over to Grayson.
Grayson Hall
Thank you, Ryan. Good morning, everyone. Very pleased to be here. As Ryan mentioned, we do have David Turner and John Owen with us. David had been our Chief Financial Officer and John really managing all of our business segments across Regions, both Wealth Management, Consumer and Business Services, and List Underwood and Dana Nolan from Investor Relations, who many of you know.
Before we get started, let me remind you that in this presentation or in the question-and-answer period that follows, we may make forward-looking statements and our disclosure related to forward-looking statements is located in the appendix of this presentation.
Let start -- let just started with the quick overview of who we are and our business model. Some of you are very familiar with Regions Financial, so I will be brief, but I did want to touch on just a few points.
Our franchise today expands 16 states and clearly some of the most attractive markets in the Southeast. While some of these markets certainly faced economic challenges during the downturn, we do believe that long-term prospects for these market are very good overall.
In fact, population growth throughout our footprint, our primary driver sustainable economic growth is projected to be above 4.8% between now and 2017, which is significantly higher than the national projection.
As depicted on this slide, we divide our business into three geographical markets and into three separate business groups, our Consumer Services Group, our Wealth Management Group and our Business Services Group.
And within these three groups, we have strategically aligned all of our businesses within these groups into 17 separate distinct business that are separated based off unique products, unique customers and functional expertise. In short, we are the 15th largest full service bank in the nation, with products and services that offer customers convenience and the ability to bank where they choose.
At our core, we are relationship bank. We are focusing on customers is a key strategic priority, which drives our relentless commitment to service quality. At the same time, we believe everything we do as a company must simultaneously benefit all our stakeholders, customers, communities, associates and shareholders. Ultimately, if we create share value for our customers, communities and associates, shareholders will benefit as we build a stronger but more importantly a sustainable business.
Last at this conference, I spoke about a new initiative we called Regions 360, which is a deliberate prescriptive approach to building strong relationships in a strong banking culture. This is how we get a full and detailed view of our customer’s needs, while deepening customer relationships through referrals to other areas of bank. This strategy is simple. It release about just providing top quality service that creates exceptional customer loyalty and retention.
We spent a last 12 months while communicating our strategy, our approach to associates and developing clear performance metrics and measurement across the company, and our team understands that Regions 360 initiative is critically important to our future. The program has continued to gain momentum, which is evident in growth of our customer base. In fact, 15 of 17 businesses have experienced growth in 2013.
In addition, we are continuing to deepen relationship for our customer by increasing number of products or services they utilize. To help our associate succeed on this front, we have created referral grades that clearly outline expectations. It’s a clear, yet, simple strategy and it is how we believe we can drive sustainable growth in the markets we serve.
At Regions, we also believe to allow customers to bank the way they choose is key to customer satisfaction and key to customer growth. With that mind, we have a comprehensive channel platform that includes our retail branch network, our contact centre, online and mobile as well as automated phone and social media outlets.
It is clear that customers like to bank using multiple channels, multiple options as they choose. Approximately, 95% of our customers use multiple channels. Branches, while at the topic of the debate across industry continued to be important, continued to be relevant as banking still is a people business.
As such, our retail network overall distribution strategy contains, produces almost 76% of all transactions and 81% of all sales. These are currently occurring throughout our branch network. However, we continue to analyze the number in major of our physical locations as we seek to capitalize on high-value seller interactions in conjunction with our digital channels and our contact center.
In that regard, this quarter we’ve made a decision to consolidate some 30 branches in various locations across our footprint. These branch consolidations will have minimal expense impact to both the fourth and first quarter, but will improve our expense efficiencies over time and demonstrate our ongoing rigor with respect to expense management.
We also recognized that we must continue to innovate, as this is critical to attracting and retaining customers. This slide illustrates some of the areas where we have delivered new enhanced products and services as well as several initiatives that are underway. We are also focused on new revenue initiatives and have delivered solutions to changes in account structure, strategic portfolio purchases, entering new businesses and enhancing our overall offerings.
Our quest for new opportunities to grow revenue sources will continue as we focus on meeting the needs of our customers. We believe Regions 360 has contributed to our loan growth this year. Till the end of the third quarter, loan growth totaled $1.9 billion or 3% and has exceeded many of our peers for the past three quarters.
Importantly in the third quarter, almost every loan category in both business and consumer lending experienced growth. And year-to-date, approximately 65% of our geographic markets, the communities we operate in are experiencing growth. Business lending in particular continues to drive the momentum, which is led by our commercial and industrial portfolio, in particular our specialized groups and our asset-based lending group are delivering strong growth results.
In addition, we believe our investor real estate portfolio is closed to stabilization as new loan production continues to increase and the pace of decline in oustandings in this portfolio continue to decelerate. The consumer lending portfolio also grew in the third quarter, making a pivotal shift in balance totals and trends. The indirect auto portfolio was a primary driver of growth, as we have expanded our dealer network year-over-year by almost 20%.
We are also focused on increasing our number of loans per dealer by developing and deploying technology that allows for faster response times and quicker answers on loan requests that should ultimately drive improvements and increases in loan production. Additionally, we are experiencing growth in our home equity loan product, which has helped us offset declines in the home equity line product.
We are also growing our number of active cardholders, our number of card transactions and overall card portfolio balances outstanding. We continued to aggressively cross-sell this product to increase our overall penetration rate into our customer base.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter, we expect loan growth to continue but at a more moderate pace, reflecting the current economic environment. In addition to our success in growing loans, we have significantly reduced our dependence on timed deposits, while increasing low cost deposits which has reduced our overall cost deposits and internal overall cost of funding.
At the end of the third quarter, our deposit costs grew to 13 basis points, one of the lowest levels among our peers. The decline in deposit costs has contributed favorably to our margin expansion. Net interest margin for the third quarter was 3.24%, which is an increase of 8 basis points from the previous quarter.
Rising interest rates are expected to be beneficial to our net interest margin as our assets sensitive balance sheet reacts favorably. It increases in both short term and long-term rates. However, if rates stay at their present level, we do expect our net interest margin to remain relatively stable.
Let me turn and speak about expenses in just a moment. We are committed to driving long-term growth while improving efficiency across the organization. We have one of the lowest non-interest expense to average assets ratios at 2.98%. That being said, we have recently made investments in talent to help us grow revenue, roughly 70% of the year-to-date hires in our company are in revenue customer facing positions.
Generally speaking, it’s taken us about 12 months for these positions to become profitable contributors. We’ve also adjusted expenses related to mortgage and we’re adapting our business model to reflect the overall production slowdown. Variable expenses like commissions will immediately decline and our operational staff has already been reduced by over 20%.
In addition, throughout 2013, we have launched several Six Sigma initiatives across the franchise to help us drive efficiently -- efficiency at an accelerated base. We’re early in the process. We’re encouraged by the results and in the near-term, we expect our efficiency ratio to trend down from current levels in order to achieve our long-term efficiency ratio targets.
We recognized that a more normalized rate environment is necessary but nevertheless we believe we can still make incremental progress on expense initiatives and expense efficiencies. We continue to make progress with respect to asset quality. Net charge-offs in the third quarter reached lowest level more than five years as net losses declined 56% from the prior year.
Non-performing loans continue to decline and inflows of non-performing loans have reached lower levels. Based on everything we know today, we expect favorable asset trends to continue. That being said, certain metrics can experience unevenness on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
Let’s turn to capital liquidity for a moment. We remain well positioned for their estimated Basel III Tier 1 common ratio at 10.4% at the end of third quarter. From a liquidity standpoint, our loan-to-deposit ratio is very solid, very stable and we continue to be well positioned to be compliant with the liquidity cover ratio.
We believe we have a solid capital plan for 2014 and a proven track record of execution. In terms of capital deployment, we used our capital in investment to grow our business fast but we are -- and we are focused on organic loan growth that is consistent with our risk tolerance.
And we will opportunistically evaluate complementary loan portfolios and other transactions. But returning to our capital to our shareholders is also a top priority. Every time we’d like to get our dividend payout ratio closer to the peer average and we will appropriately evaluate share repurchase opportunities.
So what this mean for 2014, we realize that we potentially face challenges of a prolonged low interest rates, slow growth economy. And that we’ll need to respond to increasing regulatory expectations as they mature across our industry. However, with further leveraging of our strategies such as Regions 360 to grow customer license ships, we do expect to grow loans and customers at a steady pace as well as achieving modest deposit growth.
And finally, we expect to generate positive operating leverage over the course of 2014. In closing, our team remains committed to and continue to successfully execute on our strategic priorities to build the stronger regions. At the quarter, we remain focused on our customers that continue to drive our culture of leading service quality across the company as well as following a shared value philosophy.
We have been focusing on our customers, have an engaged workforce and make it a positive impact on our communities to ultimately drive long-term growth, shareholder value and create a sustainable business model. Thank you for your time today.
At this point, we are glad to answer any questions that you may have. Thank you.
Question-and-Answer Session
Ryan Nash - Goldman Sachs
Grayson -- Grayson, maybe I’ll get started. You’ve got in line some parts of your outlook for 2014 but if you think about 2014 relative to 2013, we talked about some of the things that you guys did this year, returning to profitability, managing the expenses. As you look ahead to 2014, what do you think will define 2014 provision?
Grayson Hall
Well, if you look at our standard today and also what's different today than a year ago and how do I think about, how the bank looks a year from now. Throughout ‘13, we’ve continued to see credit improve from other asset quality perspective. And we’ve continued to see loan demand improved albeit modestly. But it’s broader today than it was a year ago. It’s broader from a product perspective and it’s broader from a geographic perspective.
So as we do look at what's occurred in ‘13, it’s had -- it’s been a very rigorous focus on the expense control but balanced against how do we grow? And so we’ve made some very specific decisions on what we do from the expense management standpoint and what we do from our revenue generation perspective.
Controlling expenses is infinitely easier than finding ways to generate revenue in this market. We know that. We appreciate that. But we still have to transition Regions from really a credit recovery story to more of a sustainable growth story. We believe ‘14 in lot of ways is similar to ‘13. We hope we’re wrong. We hope the economy accelerates faster. We hope we get a more favorable interest rate environment. We’re not betting on that.
We’re building our business plans for environment to still a low rate, slower growth, which means that we’ve got to find -- we got to build the best bankers in the market that we operate in. We got to win business, going from customer-to-customer. I think, John Owen said it best last night. When you look at ‘14, we’re not expecting a lot of home runs. We want to hit a lot of base hits.
We’re going to focus on the fundamentals. We’re going to continue to find ways to grow our company incrementally and find ways to improve our efficiency. After we’ve been through this for five years, there is not a lot of pockets of expenses that’s going to dramatically reduce expense base. But there are opportunities for us to continue to incrementally drive efficiency initiatives.
We have a whole team of people. They’re walking away to the organization trying to find those opportunities to continue to refine our expenses. I do think some of our credit related expenses will continue to wind down. You will see that overtime. And I do think, some of the investments that we’ve made in ‘13 on the revenue generation side will start to produce the results that you’ll see in ‘14.
Ryan Nash - Goldman Sachs
Great. I guess, for both, Grayson, you and David. Your loan growth expectation of 2% to 4% for 2014 implies kind of steady to maybe a little-bit of a follow-up potential in loan growth. Can you talk about some of the puts and takes that are built into expectations. You’ve obviously made very good traction on the C&I side. And it seems like both the home equity portfolio and the investor real estate portfolio are getting closer to inflection. Can you just flush out what's some of the underlying assumptions in this 2% to 4% growth are?
Grayson Hall
Yeah, I mean, if you look at our balance sheet, the challenge we’ve had over the last two, three years is this. We’ve had two segments for a loan portfolio which have been declining. Our commercial real estate has declined. That’s been a strategy of ours is to reduce that exposure. And we really -- they would manage that part of our credit exposure down very sharply. We believe that we are close to a stabilization point on that portfolio.
At the same time, we’ve seen our equity line portfolio decline as well, which is predominantly been result of the massive amount of refinancings that have taken place in that mortgage market. Again we’re starting to see some stabilization there. But the challenge for Regions have been, with those two portfolios declining, how do you grow loans. So we’ve had to really refocus on a lot the other segments and try to generate some of the loan growth.
As you remember, we reentered the indirect auto lending business. We reentered the credit card business. We tried to diversify revenue streams from our credit perspective. So that we’re not betting on one particular sector but we’re making sure that we are getting our fair share across the breadth of credit of demand. What we are seeing is that we’re getting, as those two portfolios had stabilized, we are starting to get net growth for the last two quarters have been very encouraging.
We think that continues. Knowing what we know today, as I mentioned earlier, the thing that’s been the most encouraging to us is not that the level of demands increased, but the broadness of that demand has. We’re just seeing more broad demand across our 16 stage then we saw earlier.
Earlier, most everything was concentrated really in the upper end of corporate. We are starting to see a little more demand in the lower end of middle market commercial and in small businesses that demand is still today fairly small, but better than it was and not back to normalize levels but better than it was. And so there are some encouraging signs. Again, I would classify them as sort of base hits, not a lot of home runs there, but clearly better.
John, you may want to add to that?
John Owen
Yeah, the only thing I would add to what Grayson said is, if you look at kind of what’s going on across the markets. So the auto space is doing well for everybody. The forecast for all auto sales is up to about 15.8 million units, so we are getting our fair share of that. We’re not compromising on price and structure. We’re getting good part of loans as well in the books.
The credit card, we are seeing some improvement in credit cards and we’ve had a good trend over the last six, 12 months in credit cards. Again, if we go to commercial side that was based around specialized industries, so healthcare has been strong, energy has been strong. We think those will be profits and will continue to do well in ‘14 as well.
David Turner
Now, do you think you can get a little 50 and lot of feedback, but do you think you got to look at the Southeast and the question you got to ask yourself is, Southeast really was at the centre of this economic storm, but is it poised to have a stronger recovery than rest of the country? And if you look at energy in particular, energy in our markets along with Gulf Coast have been very, very strong over the last few quarters and should continue for sometime?
Ryan Nash - Goldman Sachs
David, just on tapering and it just seems like that should be happening over the next couple of months. I think our economists said the 75% probability up in either December or January, assuming that means the further steepening on the yield curve, you just talked about the puts and takes on the net interest margin. Do you think that even if the benefits of premium amortization higher investment yields can offset the core yield compression that you will see in the loan portfolio?
David Turner
Sure, I think that when you look at the taper, that’s really just one piece of this. In terms of any movement, especially short end we think that’s out quite a while. So a steepener actually is beneficial to us. You’ve seen our amortization impact in the third quarter. In particular, that was the big driver of our margin expansion.
We expect if we get to steepener that will help us maintain this stable to perhaps upward bias in our net interest income and the resulting margin. The question will be, how does that interact with rates going on the books in this low rate environment that we have? We think, net-net, if we can get the steepening then we can have some positive movement from net interest income and then the resulting margin. Right now, we’re still playing on a very low rate environment all through to 2014 and if we get that then it will be a positive to this.
Grayson Hall
Yeah, one of the challenges we faced going into the challenging economy was that a big portion of our lending portfolio, Ryan, was variable based and so we didn’t have a big fixed rate book of business that was maturing at higher rates. And we ran to put it back on at lower rates. That was bad news. Now it’s actually good news and that we don’t have that battle to fight.
You are seeing some pricing compression that so far yield -- loan yields appear to be holding up fairly stable. And the improvements we’ve been able to make in deposit cost and the improvements we’ve been able to make in lowering our non-performing loans is and of course the steeper yield curve reducing premium amortization securities portfolio, all three of those have aided us in trying to create a stable, actually an improving margin over the last few quarter.
Ryan Nash - Goldman Sachs
John, in terms of the retail franchise, as you look out, we obviously got the final rules on the deposit advance product which was a decent revenue source for Regions and there is obviously risk of -- there have been potential changes to the ordering of transactions and service charges? How does the combination of those things think about the change the way you think about retail distribution, I know you guys were early in terms of rationalizing the branch network, but you guys taking another closer look, given the pressure that we are seeing on revenue in that part of the franchise?
John Owen
Yeah. If I think about kind of distribution channels and broader than retail, over the last five years we closed 16% of our branches, we have gone through and done a lot of consolidations over the last four, five years. We will do additional consolidations, but I will tell you the low-hanging fruit is gone. We have recently, this month announced we will consolidate another small number of branches, about 30.
But we are also investing in alternative channels. I would tell you the alternative channel is really where a lot of investments have been, remote deposit capture we launched in April and we are really trying to take a lot of traffic, I will call low-value transaction, if you will, out of the branch, because what we are finding at the branch is customers still want to come in and go face to face for a life event, a mortgage, get a car loan, open up my first investment account. But for things like deposits they are great doing that under remote deposit capture.
Since we launched in April, we are up to over 50,000 deposits a month. So, faster the option, fast trending, we are really working to allow the customer to bank the way they want to bank.
Now your question on deposit advance, guidance came out really about two weeks ago. We are working our way through that guidance to understand what it means to us. We are not at a position right now to talk about really our go-forward on that, because we are not, really, we have got about a week and a half into this thing.
So, we’ll sort that out and communicate that direction overtime. We think the guidance, again, the guidance is out, we got to get through it. But on the retail channel, I think we have done branch consolidations, I don’t think us kind of big number going forward. We are investing in the online. We are also investing heavily in our ATM network and our deposit smarts.
Ryan Nash - Goldman Sachs
Okay. We have about five minutes to go, I open up to questions or I could keep asking questions.
Question-and-Answer Session
Unidentified Analyst
(Inaudible)
David Turner
I think, if you look at the dividend for our peers have been in that 25% range or something, we can get to sooner rather than later. We then, last year we tilted our total return to share buyback versus dividend because we are trading below tangible book value at the time of our CCAR submission, little different this year for us.
That being said, we kind of want to get that dividend close to peers first and then to the extent there is an amount to be returned to the shareholders to the rest and our share buyback, that’s kind of I would think that is.
Grayson Hall
Clearly more balanced approach, but I think still dividend payout ratio is relatively modest, the bulk of it really coming from the share repurchase program, now peers may move, so we will see.
Ryan Nash - Goldman Sachs
Okay. Grayson, you talked about credit potentially could be lumpy overtime, but as you look at you guys are at 60 basis points to charge-off now and while the loan portfolio has just begun to grow. I guess, a two part question, one, can we continue to see charge-offs come down over, as we look into ’14 and maybe into ’15, and given the low level of charge-offs we are at, how do you think the portfolio will perform in an environment where growth starts accelerating. Do you think we can continue to run at this low for longer kind of environment or do you think that higher loan growth will be met with higher charge-offs?
Grayson Hall
No. I think that, first of all, when you look at our balance sheet in particular, significant improvement year-over-year, but non-performing loans have continued to trend down but still high, criticizing classified loans continue to trend down, but still high from what you would consider normal for us and our position as a result continues to be high.
And so from a charge-off standpoint, charge-offs are improving, but we still have -- we have provided for a lot of loans that are non-performing today and we’ve got to resolve those and we are resolving them quite quickly. That resolution process can result in an unevenness on charge-offs but it has progressed, and we think that charge-offs own -- continue to be a little bit uneven.
But when you look at, what I would call core charge-offs, core (inaudible) around new productions, charge-offs around the performing part of our portfolio continues to improve.
How low it can go? I don’t know. I would -- but I would speculate today is given the quality of loans they are going on the books at our bank and quite frankly across the industry, I think that as long as the economy continues to improve moderately that charge-offs could continue to come down, if in an improving economy. It is some of the highest credit quality of lending that I have seen in my career at this juncture and I don’t believe improved loan growth will necessarily result in higher charge-offs today.
It certainly today our customers are in a better financial position than they have been in years on both the business side and the consumer side of our balance sheet. It is just both have delevered, both have taken advantage of extremely low rates to refinance and both are carrying more liquidity and more borrowing capacity then they had a long time. So if the economy continues to go along, I think it is a very favorable trend for credit.
Ryan Nash - Goldman Sachs
Great. Please join me in banking Regions.
Grayson Hall
Thank you.
David Turner
Thank you very much.
Copyright policy: All transcripts on this site are the copyright of Seeking Alpha. However, we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists, and are excited to contribute to the democratization of financial information on the Internet. (Until now investors have had to pay thousands of dollars in subscription fees for transcripts.) So our reproduction policy is as follows: You may quote up to 400 words of any transcript on the condition that you attribute the transcript to Seeking Alpha and either link to the original transcript or to www.SeekingAlpha.com. All other use is prohibited.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL, CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION, AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS. IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.