Regions Financial Corporation (NYSE:RF)
Annual Shareholder Meeting
May 16, 2013 3:00 pm ET
Executives
O. B. Grayson Hall - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Executive Officer of Regions Bank, President of Regions Bank and Director of Regions Bank
O. B. Grayson Hall
At Regions, our mission really is to achieve superior economic value for our shareholders over time by making life better for our customers, our associates and the communities that we serve and by creating what we call shared value as we help our customers meet their financial needs and their financial aspirations. So what does this exactly mean? If every day when a Regions Banker leaves their job, they can honestly answer that we've made life better for someone, then we will undoubtedly reach our goals. We will earn the loyalty of our customers and associates and create a strong, consistent, sustainable business model.
Creating shared value really is the foundation of everything we're doing today. It's our business. It's how we're building the company for the long term, and that benefits our shareholders, as well as our customers and our communities.
The idea of creating shared value is not new. In fact, it's quite simple. What we do as a company must simultaneously benefit our customers, our associates, our shareholders and our communities, ideas that don't mean much if you can't put them into action.
Today, I want to spend just a moment showing you a few examples of how we're creating shared value at Regions that has a lasting benefit for all of us. Let's start first with our customers. Over the last few years, we've really spent a lot of time simplifying our business model and really focusing on the fundamentals of banking. Maybe old-fashioned, but one of these fundamentals is that a banker should be a trusted financial advisor who helps our customers become more successful financially.
We believe that relationship banking is really built on a foundation of integrity and trust and making sure that we take time to understand our customers' needs, and we meet those needs with products they value and that they need. We call this approach internally Regions 360. We don't just look at one part of a customer's financial goals, instead we take a complete view and only offer products and services that deliver value to the customer. It's about creating quality sales that meet all of the customers' needs.
That's how our bankers earn the reputation of being a trusted financial advisor. Just recently, we were recognized by Gallup for achieving top decile performance in service quality. In their nomenclature, this places us in the category of world-class service level. This is just one part, a foundational part, but just one part of how we're focusing on customers that creates shared value.
Let's take a quick look at a video clip of how our bankers in Inverness, Mississippi have created shared value for one of our customers, T&D Farms.
[Presentation]
O. B. Grayson Hall
Our second element of shared value is really associates and for all the advances and investments in technology and banking today, and we've invested a lot. The most convenient access to our bank is through the Internet. Secondly is through the mobile phone. And even recently, we started taking deposits over the mobile phone. I'm still trying to figure out exactly how that works, but they're doing that.
But for all that advancement in technology, banking really is still a people business. Of our 4 million customers, 65% of them still come into one of our offices every 30 days. And so we think that, number one, building the best team and making sure that team is engaged is one thing we absolutely have to do.
We've been using Gallup for service quality, and recently, we started using them for customer engagement -- associate engagement. And so we use them to survey all of our associates, and we built plans across our entire 16-state footprint to raise a level of associate engagement across our company because engaged associates provide better service. They meet more customer needs, and they help grow our franchise.
So let's walk -- let's look at a short video clip out of East Tennessee that'll show you -- give you an idea of what our teams are doing.
[Presentation]
O. B. Grayson Hall
And so the associate engagement is real important, but also community engagement is, and Regions has a long history of being very philanthropic in giving back to our communities. We try to be a good corporate citizen in all the markets we serve, and that's great, but it's not enough.
And so what we've tried to do is get our associates more engaged in the community. In 2012, we participated in over 8,000 community service events, and more importantly, we taught over 4,100 financial literacy courses. Our bankers getting out of the markets teaching our customers, especially young customers, how to make better financial decisions and to make them better Regions customers and long, term make our business and their financial aspirations more sustainable.
We've done that in a lot of different ways, and I just want to show you a quick video of how we had a banker, Jeff Allen, who assisted a volunteer fire department in Carsten [ph] City and made this work in this community.
[Presentation]
O. B. Grayson Hall
Well, clearly, being involved in our communities is important because no bank can ever outperform the success of their communities. For us to be a strong financial institution, we have to have strong communities, and so it's a great example of how we're trying to engage in that.
But you're shareholders, and I wanted to speak lastly about shareholders. It's important that everything we do really drives shareholder value. We've clearly been through a difficult time over the past 5 years. It's been hard work. But we turned the corner, and we're moving forward. Our strong performance over the last several quarters and our confidence in our business strategy and overwhelming positive morale across our franchise really has given us a lot of confidence. It's given the market a lot of confidence.
Since the beginning of 2012, our stock price has increased 105%, which outpaced both the S&P 500 and the bank stocking index, albeit we were first to recognize this is from a fairly low starting point, but progress nonetheless and progress that we worked hard for. But just last night -- I mean, last month, we announced some very good news to shareholders. We have raised our dividend, and we are actively repurchasing shares in the marketplace. It was a conservative increase, but a prudent first step. It was also good sign that we returned to sustainable profitability and that we're now in a position to start returning additional capital to our shareholders.
We are now focused on prudently growing our business, and one of the nice parts about this job is I get lots of cards and letters. Some of them are fun to read, but I read them all. If a letter comes into my office addressed to me, I read every single one of them. Some days, that doesn't take long. Some days, it takes quite a while.
But one of my favorite letters I get is ever so often, I get one from Stan Macken [ph]. Stan sent me a letter recently and said, "You know, you really ought to try to get your shareholders more involved in trying to refer business to Regions." That was a great idea, and Stan, thank you for that note. But I wanted to recognize that when you -- a gentleman name of Robert Murphy. Robert, where are you at? Thank you, Robert. This is a shareholder that has historically referred a lot of business to us. Robert's in Jackson, Mississippi. He's a longtime shareholder of Regions, and in fact, a great example of what -- it helps us if shareholders really find ways to refer business to us.
Robert's always been good about referring business to us in Mississippi, but he's expanding and recently referred his business in Nashville. So Robert, thank you, but I'll leave that as a challenge of referring us even more business.
Our business is about lending and making deposits and growing households. It's not complicated. It's pretty simple.
I want to show you just a quick clip of an example of what we're doing in Atlanta, Georgia at Oakhurst Medical Center and how we're trying to grow our business there.
[Presentation]
O. B. Grayson Hall
Well, I just want to close this morning by reminding you that we remain focused on our strategic priorities and to remind you those who are staying focused on our customers, that's first and foremost in everything we do. But given what we've been through, second's really trying to continue to strengthen and enhance our financial performance. We're doing that incrementally. We're doing it prudently. We were making good progress. Third is really to build the best team. We continue to try to put together the best banking team in the country. We believe we continue to make good progress on that, but it's an initiative we can never slowdown on. The second one is continued strength in our risk management. With what this industry's been through, with what this country's been through, we have to have a great risk management infrastructure inside our company, and we continue to build that. We'll never get it where we absolutely want it because it's a journey, and so we keep working on that. And the last thing is just performance management, making sure that we're managing expenses, we're managing people, we're managing all the assets that as shareholders you've asked us to manage. And so we're trying to really undergird all of this with the foundation of real strong performance management.
But I'd go ahead and remind you again that we are transitioning to a growth mode, and I would ask you, if you are willing as a shareholder, please refer business to us. Follow the example that Robert has given us. I think this will help us. It will help you shareholders. I hope that you've enjoyed the examples we've given you today of some just small glimpses of what Regions is doing in the communities that we operate in. Thank you.
Copyright policy: All transcripts on this site are the copyright of Seeking Alpha. However, we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists, and are excited to contribute to the democratization of financial information on the Internet. (Until now investors have had to pay thousands of dollars in subscription fees for transcripts.) So our reproduction policy is as follows: You may quote up to 400 words of any transcript on the condition that you attribute the transcript to Seeking Alpha and either link to the original transcript or to www.SeekingAlpha.com. All other use is prohibited.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL, CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION, AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS. IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.