Exxon Mobil Corporation (NYSE:XOM)
2015 Analyst Meeting Call
March 04, 2015 09:00 AM ET
Executives
Jeff Woodbury - Vice President Investor Relations, Corporate Secretary
Rex Tillerson - Chairman and CEO
Mark Albers - SVP
Jack Williams - SVP
Michael Dolan - SVP
Andrew Swiger - SVP and Principal Financial Officer
Analysts
Doug Terreson - Evercore ISI
Blake Fernandez - Howard Weil
Paul Sankey - Wolfe Research
Ed Westlake - Credit Suisse
Evan Calio - Morgan Stanley
Asit Sen - Cowen and Company
Doug Leggate - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Roger Read - Wells Fargo
Ryan Todd - Deutsche Bank
Alastair Syme - Citigroup
Paul Mecray - Tower Bridge Advisors
Phil Gresh - JPMorgan
John Herrlin - Societe Generale
Gordon Gray - HSBC
Jason Gammel - Jefferies & Company
Anish Kapadia - Tudor, Pickering, Holt
Operator
Good day and welcome to this ExxonMobil Analyst Meeting. Today's call is being recorded. Please note that we will not be taking questions from the telephone audience today. [Operator Instructions]. Thank you for your patience and please stay on the line.
Jeff Woodbury
Well ladies and gentleman, good morning. And welcome to our 2015 Analyst meeting. And we very much appreciate you all joining us this morning, especially given the warm and balmy weather outside. But we’re looking forward to a very engaging discussion with you today. For those of you that have not had the opportunity to meet, my name is Jeff Woodbury and I’m the Vice President for Investor Relations as well as the Corporate Secretary.
And I want to begin with just familiarizing you with the safety procedures here at the New York Stock Exchange. So if you look around, there are two exits from this room, one in the back on the right side here, and then one in the front to the door you came in this morning, both of which will take you to a stairwell down to the street level. In case of an emergency, there will an audible that will give instructions as to what we do. As well there will be stock exchange personnel here to go ahead and guide us. Also before we begin, I would ask everyone to silence any electronic devices including cell phones and iPads, so that we’re not disturbed during the presentation today.
Next, I would like to draw your attention to our cautionary statement which you will see in the front of the presentation material that you’ve before you. And as you know this statement contains information that is pertinent to today's discussion. And if you had not previously read this material, I’d encourage you to do so.
You can also access our website at exxonmobil.com for additional information on factors that will affect our future results, as well as some supplemental information that provide some of the definitions regarding the terms that we use today.
So let’s begin by reviewing our agenda. I am very pleased to advise that Rex Tillerson will lead our presentation today. And as you can see. We’ll begin with key messages and 2014 results followed by an update on our energy outlook which as you know really underpins our business strategy and our investment plan. Next we will discuss some key elements of our strategy, our differentiated performance and an update on our business plans that are creating long-term shareholder value through the cycle.
We’ll also showcase our progress on unlocking upstream resource value as well as strengthening both our downstream and chemical portfolios. You see that we are going to take a short break and then following that break, we’d ask the management committee to join Rex upon the stage to answer your questions. So it’s now my great pleasure to introduce our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Rex Tillerson.
Rex Tillerson
Good morning all. Thank you Jeff and I want to add my welcome to all of you as well. It is indeed a pleasure to come up here every year in this very historic venue. And before we go any further, I do want to thank the New York Stock Exchange for allowing us to continue to hold our annual shareholder analyst meeting in this room. This is the 13th consecutive year that we’ve held this meeting here. They tell me it's the longest running consecutive analyst meeting on the exchange. We do appreciate the support they give us though and not just to us, but to all of our investors as well.
So whether you're here in person, whether you have dialed in on the telephone lines or you are logging in on the webcast, I do welcome you. I am pleased to have the opportunity to discuss our company's investment plans, our financial results and our operating results with you this morning.
On the stage backdrop here, we are showcasing one of our very successful projects, the LNG project in Papua New Guinea. And you can see the picture is a photo of the drilling rig atop the mountain at the Hides gas field which is the principal resource of supplying gas to the project. This is at 9000 feet of elevation, so it’s a very high altitudes. And from here the gas flows through a 400-mile pipeline down some very rugged terrain to the LNG plant which is located on the coastal area, so it’s at sea level. So you move from 9000 feet to seal level, about 400 miles away.
The successful start-up of this venture I think once again demonstrates our unique capabilities in resource development, particularly in challenging environments. And it is really made possible by our very highly-talented and dedicated employees and contractors. Folks, this is ExxonMobil. This is what we do.
So let me begin with key messages that I hope to leave you with today. ExxonMobil's strategies and competitive advantages enable us to create value throughout the business cycle. That's a statement I’ve made every year. Regardless of the business environment, we remain focused on the fundamentals. We take a disciplined, selective and long-term approach to investing in opportunities which we believe are attractive. We delivered on our commitments last year in 2014 including 8 major project start-ups, capital expenditures of $38.5 billion and production of 4 million oil equivalent barrels per day.
In 2015, we plan to invest around $34 billion and we will continue to grow upstream production to an average of 4.3 million barrels per day in 2017. So we continue to demonstrate our differentiated performance. We continue to lead the industry on return on capital employed, and most importantly long-term shareholder value. Now as all of you know, the business environment has changed quite dramatically since we last met with a sharp decrease in crude oil prices. The oil and gas business is cyclical and we’ve been here before.
And this chart only goes back to 04, but some of you who have hair that looks kind of like mine have been through probably at least three of these types of downturns over your career, as I have. The oil and gas, so our investment decisions are based on a long-term view informed by our energy outlook and tested across a broad range of economic parameters including a broad range of commodity prices. We’ve a relentless focus on the things we control. World-class project execution differentiates us and we continue to deliver. We’re always looking for ways to lower our structure and we expect to lead the cost curve especially under these conditions.
We strive to maintain best-in-class reliability and capture the benefits of our integrated business model. By emphasizing these fundamentals, we deliver leading business results and create value throughout the business cycle. The 2014 results reflect the strength of our integrated businesses amid global economic challenges, uncertainties and price volatility. The safety and health of our employees, contractors, customers and the people who live in the areas in which we operate remains paramount to all of us at ExxonMobil. I'm proud to report that we achieved our best ever safety performance in 2014.
We employee rigorous environmental management systems and practices to minimize our environmental footprint. Total corporate earnings were $32.5 billion and return on average capital employed was an industry-leading 16.2%. We generated $49.2 billion of cash flow from operations and asset sales and selectively invested $38.5 billion in the business. Total shareholder distributions were $23.6 billion. Our proved reserve replacement ratio was 104%, marking the 21st consecutive year we added more oil and natural gas reserves than we produced.
Risk management is at the very core of our business. Everything we do has an element of risk, whether it's technical, operational, financial risk or environmental risk. And therefore it is incumbent on each and every one of our associates to recognize the elements of risk in their jobs, to understand and assess that risk and to effectively eliminate or mitigate significant risks. We have a systematic approach guided by our Operations Integrity Management System also known as O-I-M-S or OIMS. By providing a framework with rigorously applied system and processes, OIMS helps us manage safety, security, health and environmental risk and achieve excellence in our operational performance.
OIMS guides the activities of our employees and our third-party contractors around the world. It is applied to all work processes at all levels. So everyone is expected to operate the same way every day, everywhere. OIMS begins with leadership. We focus on clearly defined policies to reinforce accountability, set expectations, measure performance and recognize progress. The bottom line OIMS helps us maintain our license to operate, sustain our superior operational performance, achieve continuous improvement which ultimately leads to better business performance.
So let’s now look at our safety performance. ExxonMobil’s approach to business, operations and corporate citizenship is built upon a commitment to integrity in everything we do. Nowhere is that more evident than in our commitment to safe operations, with a continued emphasis on both personnel and process safety. As the chart shows, our workforce safety performance for both employees and contractors continues to improve and remains strong in the industry. We’re focused on identification and prevention of high consequence events that could potentially result in serious injuries or environmental damage.
This focus enables us to effectively prioritize our efforts as we continue to improve performance. We’re committed to our vision that nobody gets hurt and we know that effectively managing risk every day, everywhere will enable us to achieve this vision.
Let's take a quick look at our approach to environmental management. In ExxonMobil we recognize that meeting the world's growing need for energy while protecting the environment is one of society's grand challenges. We’re committed to minimizing our environmental impact. Our systematic approach has provided sustainable improvements and delivered strong environmental performance over time. Throughout our operations, we carefully identify, assess, manage and monitor environmental risk with a specific focus on reducing emissions, releases and consumption.
We maintain stakeholder engagement all along the way and apply adaptive management to modify our approach as, as appropriate.
So let’s now take a look at the energy outlook with a view to the year 2040. So this is an appropriate photo of the Shanghai skyline. ExxonMobil’s outlook for energy provides our long-term view of global energy demand and supply which really underpins and guides our company's business strategies and our investments. These investments help provide the world with reliable, affordable energy necessary to advance economic prosperity and to improve living standards the world over.
By the year 2040, the world's population is expected to increase to 9 billion people. To support that population growth, we expect significant economic growth and a dramatic expansion of the middle class. These fundamentals will continue to drive energy demand. As a result, ExxonMobil’s 2015 outlook for energy forecast demand will grow by about 35% taking into account significant energy efficiency gains. Non-OECD nations shown in blue on the chart are expected to drive this growth in GDP and energy use, accounting for almost 70% of annual energy demand by the year 2040.
The world’s middle class is expected to increase by 3 billion people essentially from non-OECD nations. This means better lives for billions and it will enable in large part and will be enabled in large part by improved access to modern technology and affordable, reliable energy. The demand outlook for OECD countries, shown in red highlights the large-scale impact of energy efficiency. GDP in these countries is expected to grow 80% by the year 2040. However energy demand is likely to remain essentially flat as expanded use of energy efficient technologies and practices lead to significant energy savings. Without these efficiency gains, we estimate global demand growth will be about four times the projected 35%.
So now let's move to a discussion of energy supplies needed to meet this growing demand. Along with population growth and human progress, we continue to see an evolving energy landscape driven by advances in technology, available resources and trade. Today oil and gas and coal are the most widely used fuels providing about 80% of global supplies. Looking forward, we expect oil will remain the leading energy source and natural gas will surpass coal to become the second-largest source.
Together oil and natural gas will meet about 60% of the world’s energy demand in the year 2040. Oil use will grow on higher demand from the transportation and chemical sectors. Natural gas demand will increase more than any other type driven by rising power generation and industrial needs. Natural gas is well recognized as a reliable, affordable and clean fuel for a wide range of uses and its growth is supported by advanced technologies that are unlocking abundant resources around the world.
Our demand projections anticipate government policies will impose rising costs on carbon dioxide emissions. These policies should provide a tailwind to the growth of energy types with low carbon intensity, including nuclear, solar, wind and hydropower. Our view reflects the reality that abundant energy enables modern life. Greater access to affordable energy will remain fundamental to reducing poverty and advancing standards of living for billions of people. To sustain progress and further expand prosperity, the world must increase the availability of reliable and affordable energy supplies.
Furthermore, meeting global energy demand growth will require diverse energy supplies from conventional sources, deepwater sources, unconventional oil and gas, and liquefied natural gas, but we’ll also require nuclear and renewables. We should pursue all of the economic opportunities. Fortunately technology advances will help minimize our environmental footprint and expand our energy options unlocking previously unrecoverable or uneconomic reservoirs, like we’ve recently seen with the North American shale revolution.
Abundant unconventional resources will meet a growing share of energy demand to the year 2040. Access to high-quality resources and substantial investments remain fundamental to meeting the growth in global oil and gas demand. Equally critical is our inability to develop secure sources of supply, both safely and responsibly. And free markets supported by sound and reliable public policies remain vital to future energy developments. This includes policies that promote free and open trade and encourage private sector investment.
Now over the next few slides, I'll provide an overview of our corporate strategy which underpins our success in creating value through the cycle. An example is shown by the photo of our unconventional shale oil operations in the Permian where we’ve ramped up activities to unlock additional value in this very high potential legacy basin.
ExxonMobil provides industry leadership to meet the world's energy needs. Key elements of our strategy are shown on this chart. Our approach has been consistent for decades. And through systematic implementation and continuous improvement, these elements have become resilient competitive advantages. As mentioned earlier, risk management and operational excellence are at the very core of our business activities. Investment and cost discipline along with world-class project execution result in the best asset mix in the industry. We continuously seek to high-grade our portfolio in thoughtful ways through acquisitions and through asset disposals.
As I’ll discuss in the coming slides we capture significant benefits from our integration. Technology leadership stimulates innovation and new solutions and our high-performing workforce drives premier results across our businesses. Our employees are the best of the best and their dedication produces the results I share with you today. We are delivering on our commitments achieving differentiated performance and growing shareholder value. ExxonMobil’s business integration is a competitive advantage that is not easily replicated.
Our businesses work together by sharing knowledge, insights and best practices. This collaboration leads to better informed decisions, higher quality investments and more efficient operations. As a result, our investments are resilient across their life cycles. Our diverse asset base provides market optionality and operational flexibility. Combined with our unique knowledge and insights, we consistently achieve industry-leading returns across the cycle. Through our integrated portfolio, we identify and capture value all along the value chain, every step of the way with the resource from the well head till it reaches the consumer.
For example abundant North American natural gas supplies have resulted in lower feedstock and energy cost in our downstream and chemical operations, that's available to everyone. But capturing that incremental value is achieved by a way of integrating the upstream gas and power marketing organization’s knowledge and global presence with those of our refining and chemical plant processes. We also capture significant cost throughout our global services organization which brings to bear our economies of scale including our integrated organizational structure, our shared research and development programs and technologies, other shared services and importantly our common best practices.
Our diverse asset base and systematic molecule management enables ExxonMobil to capture the highest possible value from every molecule that flows through our facilities. Because we are highly integrated, we can react more effectively to changes in the business environment. Approximately 75% of our refining operations are integrated with chemicals and/or lubes manufacturing. This integration provides ExxonMobil with significant flexibility to produce gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, chemicals, lubricants or other products based on the market conditions.
To build on this advantage, we employ high impact technologies that further expand our feedstock and product flexibility. Investment across the value chain ranging from LNG facilities, regasification terminals, crude and product logistics, to lubes, chemical and refining plant expansions provide us the opportunity and operational capability to maximize returns on produced as well as manufactured volumes. Our global supply organization has developed sophisticated demand planning and marketing tools that inform our upstream organization as to best value for our upstream producing supplies.
By understanding all of the variables from the well head to the consumer demand and leveraging our diverse assets and product channels, we maximize the total corporate returns.
This chart provides a broad example of how we capture benefits of our integrated activities in North America. Our upstream investments in Western Canada, the Bakken and the Permian complement our Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast refining and chemical manufacturing operations. Our facilities are configured to have the operational flexibility to process advantaged feedstocks which are available, while ensuring full value is captured for our equity supply volumes. Logistics capabilities ensure cost efficient delivery all the way through the system.
One example is our Edmonton rail terminal which is on track to start up this year. As our crude production ramps up in Canada, so do our logistics capacity ensuring we optimally place equity barrels in our own refining circuit or into the open market. A recent example that illustrates the advantage of this integration is how we were able to accelerate value capture from Kearl produced bitumen. When a new crude is introduced to the market, it generally trades at a discount for some time while refiners learn about and confirm its processing characteristics.
However years before we made a final funding decision on Kearl, our upstream, downstream and research businesses collectively worked to understand the bitumen’s properties and demonstrate to the market that it could be refined successfully. To preserve value, our teams also ensured 100% of Kearl production can be processed in our own refineries. As a result, we minimized the typical early discounts. As these examples illustrate, we capture significant benefits from our integration.
Our approach and distinct advantages apply broadly to crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. We continue to leverage this model in North America and around the globe to increase revenues, strengthen margins, lower cost and ultimately maximize the returns through our shareholders. Now execution of our business strategy has consistently led to differentiated performance.
The next few slides highlight how we have delivered on our 2014 commitments and discuss our industry-leading performance across key metrics. This chart summarizes our 2014 results. ExxonMobil’s return on average capital employed continued to lead our competitors. Free cash flow grew significantly reflecting strong business performance as well as slightly lower CapEx. We achieved our target of 4 million barrels per day of production and delivered higher upstream unit profitability despite lower crude prices.
I'll talk about many of these financial results on the next couple of slides beginning with return on capital employed. ExxonMobil’s return on capital employed continues to outperform our peers. In 2014, ROCE of 16.2% was more than five percentage points higher than our nearest competitor. Over the past five years, ROCE averaged 21% again about five percentage points higher than the next best competitor. Our sustained leadership and capital efficiency reflects our proven approach, which combines a disciplined investment approach, best-in-class project development capabilities and innovative technologies to grow a well-balanced and integrated portfolio.
Our new investments and current asset base position the corporation for long-term performance across a broad range of business conditions. ExxonMobil’s upstream profitability led the competitor group in 2014 increasing by a $1.44 per barrel from 2013. This performance reflects strategic choices we made to improve the production mix including major projects and work programs, reduced exposure to lower margin barrels and operating and capital cost savings as well as taking steps to improve fiscal conditions in certain terms. We’ll continue to focus on upstream profitability in our existing base operations as well as in our new investments.
Another measure of the value created by the business through strong financial and operating performance is the free cash flow available after fully funding our investments. The business generated about $18 billion of free cash flow in 2014, up more than $7 billion from 2013. This growth reflects our financial and operating performance and our disciplined capital allocation approach. Over the past five years ExxonMobil generated a $117 billion of free cash flow which supported our growing and reliable dividend and our industry-leading shareholder distributions.
As you can see on this chart, our shareholder distributions lead the industry over the last five years. ExxonMobil distributed $23.6 billion to shareholders in 2014 through dividends and share buybacks for a total cash distribution yield of 5.4%. We continue to grow our dividend with 2014 marking the 32nd consecutive year with a dividend increase. Further dividends per share are up 55% over the last five years. On average $0.46 of every dollar generated by the business over the last five years has been distributed to our shareholders, which is almost double our nearest competitor.
Our financial flexibility is unparalleled. ExxonMobil is one of three AAA rated companies and the only one in our industry. As the chart indicates, our low leverage and large capitalization give us substantial capacity to invest through the business cycle and capture bottom of cycle opportunities that are not available to more capital-constrained companies. ExxonMobil has unmatched access to capital on the most attractive terms and we maintain substantial flexibility to respond to opportunities. Because our size and sound financial conditions are significant assets, we use these in terms of being seen as a partner of choice by resource owners as well as a desired partner with others who are investing in the resources.
Because all of these folks know we can deliver on our commitments. Simply put, the strength of our balance sheet is a distinct competitive advantage and positions us to execute our plans in the current business environment.
Next, I’ll discuss our forward plans as we look to our investment programs and how to continue creating shareholder value. These investments include an expansion of our Mont Belvieu polyethylene plant near the US Gulf Coast which is featured in this photograph. As I mentioned, ExxonMobil remains committed to investing in attractive opportunities through the normal ups and downs of the business cycle. We take that long-term view and we test our investments across a wide range of possible business and economic conditions to ensure we’re creating value.
In 2015, we expect to spend around $34 billion or $4.5 billion less than in 2014. This plan reflects lower upstream project spending as we continue to bring major projects online while accounting for higher cost at Kashagan due to the pipeline replacement program. Downstream and chemical spending plans reflect unique opportunities to strengthen that portion of our portfolio. CapEx in 2016 and 2017 is expected to average something less than $34 billion a year. Compared with last year's outlook, our capital spending plans are about 10% lower.
I do want to emphasize that this does not reflect a change to our long-term investment approach. We’re capturing cost savings and we expect further bottom-of-cycle efficiencies, particularly in rig rates. We expect lower prices for commodities like steel and other raw materials, and we expect reduced contractor fees. Our lower CapEx outlook also includes an appropriate reexamination of our opportunity set and tactically resequencing some of our FID choices consistent with efforts to improve the specific terms and conditions as well as optimize the development plans in this environment.
In short by selectively investing through the cycle, we continue to be positioned to capture market savings and consistently deliver better financial returns. We’ll keep a close eye on our cash and prudently utilize our balance sheet to fund attractive investments.
Next, I’d like to review the upstream production outlook. We remain on track to deliver 4.3 million barrels per day of production by the year 2017. As you can see on the chart, higher margin growth from major projects and US onshore development activity more than offset our base decline. We continue to progress the multi-year start-up of 32 major projects over the five-year period of 2012 to 2017. This is that intense period of capitalization that we’ve talked about in past discussions.
Half of these projects are now online including most recently Usan in Nigeria, Papua New Guinea LNG project and the Arkutun-Dagi development offshore Sakhalin Island. All of these projects combined are adding working interest capacity of more than 550,000 barrels per day. As I’ll cover in more detail later, we plan to start up another 16 projects by the end of 2017 including Banyu Urip in Indonesia, Hebron in Canada and the Erha North Phase II in Nigeria.
This chart shows our total net liquids and gas production outlook through 2017. We anticipate total volumes to be 4.1 million oil equivalent barrels per day in 2015 and grow an average of 3% per year in 2016 and 2017. It's important for you to note that our projections are based on a Brent price of $55 per barrel. The actual production in any specific year can vary due to a number of factors such as the price itself, divestment decisions we might take, regulatory changes and geopolitics, whether in our operations or in projects that are operated by others.
It's shown by the green line near-term production increases come from liquids with a growth rate of 7% in 2015 and an average of 4% per year in 2016 and 2017. As shown by the red line, we expect gas volumes to decrease at an average of 2% annually this year and next year in 2016, really reflective of the reduced North American gas -- all of North American gas volumes as well as production curtailments at Groningen. We expect gas volumes to increase 4% in 2017 primarily driven by the ongoing ramp up at Gorgon.
While this outlook reflects our current views on market demand for North America gas, as I've noted in the past we have a very deep, ready-to-drill inventory well locations and the ability to quickly respond to opportunities to increase production as the market may dictate. Overall higher margin liquids and liquids-linked gas volumes are projected to reach 71% of our total mix by 2016. As illustrated over the past few charts, we're delivering on our commitments and achieving differentiated performance.
We’re creating shareholder value through the business cycle by maintaining our disciplined capital allocation approach, leveraging the benefits of our integrated businesses and prudently utilizing our strong balance sheet.
So I’ll move now to focus in a little further on our business lines and begin with a discussion of the upstream business. We’re really positioned with our strategies and plans to unlock incremental value in the upstream resources and let's talk about some of that. The lifeblood of our business relies upon capturing the highest quality resources. Those are pursued through either exploration or through other opportunity pursuits. These resource captures add to our high-quality 92 billion oil equivalent barrel resource base which is the largest and most diverse resource base holding in the industry.
The graphic depicts the diversity of our resource base as well as its commercial maturity. We currently have 25 billion barrels of proved reserves with an additional 28 billion barrels in design and development stages. We’re evaluating the remaining 39 billion barrels for future development. Simply put, our large resource base affords us the flexibility to select and develop the most attractive opportunities. We deploy our leading project development expertise and operational excellence to generate the greatest possible returns in a safe, secure and environmentally responsible way.
We maximize profitability of the existing portfolio by lowering cost and improving facility uptime. Development and application of high-impact proprietary technologies is a competitive advantage that enables each phase of a development, whether we’re employing techniques such as our fast-drill technology to decrease drilling days or utilizing our reservoir simulation technology to optimize the development and increase recovery, all of these add value.
So let's take a look at the new opportunity growth. As shown on the map, we are pursuing a diverse set of high-quality resource opportunities to selectively add to this large resource base. We hold more than 134 million net acres, many from under-explored regions with high risk but also higher reward potential. We also hold acreage in more established lower risk basins that are close to existing infrastructure. Our broad approach to the pursuit of new opportunities balances risk with reward along with short-cycle and long lead time developments.
So let's take a look at recent programs. As shown by the red squares on this map, we recently captured 17 new opportunities in high-quality acreage gaining exposure to multiple plays in established areas as well as in new emerging basins. The yellow stars mark the 13 discoveries we made in 2014. We added 3.2 billion oil equivalent barrels to our resource base including high-quality in situ heavy oil in Canada and discovered undeveloped resources in the US onshore. By-the-bit resource additions have averaged approximately 2 billion oil equivalent barrels per year over the last decade.
The black dots illustrate planned 2015 drilling which spans the globe including opportunities in the Gulf of Mexico, West Africa, Australia and Papua New Guinea. We continually high-grade the resource base through new pursuits. The plot on the right shows the relative potential economic returns and unit profitability of current opportunities based upon current development planning estimates. While these opportunities are assessed over a range of parameters, these two metrics illustrate how pursuits are accretive to portfolio returns and profitability.
Our broad opportunity set also includes a vast project portfolio which supports investment selectivity. ExxonMobil has more than 120 projects to develop 24 billion oil equivalent barrels. This map shows the range of resources around the world. These projects are at various stages of development including those under construction such as the Hebron Project in Eastern Canada, projects in the front end design stage such as Golden Pass LNG, and projects where we’re working to expand development around existing infrastructure such as at the Papua New Guinea LNG project and at Sakhalin.
This chart illustrates how we select and improve attractive opportunities to create additional shareholder value. The plot on the left combines new pursuits with the project portfolio. The objectives are increasing economic returns and profitability. We start with high-quality resources with stable, competitive fiscal terms from resource owners. We choose to invest selectively and only the most attractive. We then deploy world-class project execution capabilities and apply high-impact technologies to create additional value.
ExxonMobil’s experienced project teams closely manage the entire portfolio from discovery to start up, continuously looking to improve economic returns and profitability. So let's take a look at near-term production impacts. We’re improving profitability through higher margin production growth. From 2012 to 2017, we anticipate adding more than 1.1 million barrels per day of net production with close to 1 million barrels per day from projects and additional 150,000 barrels a day from major developments onshore the US. More than half of this total growth is what we would characterize as long plateau production.
Over the next few slides, I'll highlight our progress in starting up a few of the 24 major projects beginning with those that were started up in 2014. We completed a record eight major project start-ups last year demonstrating our technical and resource development skills. We added more than 250,000 oil equivalent barrels of working interest capacity across a broad range of resources and geographies. The Papua New Guinea LNG projects started up in April, several months ahead of schedule and achieved full capacity by July.
Several projects were completed towards the end of 2014 including Hibernia's southern extension, the Arkutun-Dagi project and Nabiye. And we’ll ramp up in 2015 again adding two additional volumes in the portfolio. Moving to 2015, we expect another very active year with seven major developments projected to start up, adding another 300,000 barrels a day of capacity. In the Gulf of Mexico Hadrian South, a subsea tie back to the Lucius spar is expected to start up in the next several weeks. In Canada, the Kearl expansion project continues to track ahead of schedule with anticipated start-up in midyear.
Site construction is largely complete and commissioning activities are ramping up. The project incorporates all the learnings from the initial Kearl development phase and we’ll double Kearl’s production capacity to 220,000 barrels per day which will be maintained for several decades. On the next two slides, we showcased the Banyu Urip, and West Africa deepwater projects. Banyu Urip is a significant oil development onshore Indonesia. A project is developing 450 million barrels of oil through an onshore central processing facility and utilizing a 60 mile pipeline into a floating storage and offloading vessel offshore in the Java Sea.
Banyu Urip is currently producing 40,000 barrels of oil per day through an early production system capturing value and reservoir performance learnings before we reach full project completion. The project is now more than 90% complete. The pipelines, mooring tire and FSO have been installed and commissioning of the central processing facility is underway. Almost 80% of the wells have already been predrilled. The project is on track to start up around the middle of this year and it is anticipated to reach full production capacity late in the year.
In West Africa, we’re building upon our extensive deepwater expertise to maximize the value of existing assets with expansion projects at Erha in Nigeria and Kizomba in Angola. Both projects are capital-efficient subsea tiebacks to existing FPSOs and are expected to develop 360 million barrels of oil. At Erha North Phase II, our experience in the region helped deliver project efficiencies through the design and execution phases. Drilling is ongoing and the project is anticipated to start up towards the end of this year.
Kizomba Satellites Phase 2 is another capital-efficient development. The design, fabrication and installation methods for Phase 2 are consistent with our Design One, Build Multiple approach to development concepts. This reduces capital costs and improves returns. We used many of the major contractors, fabrication yard facilities, and personnel who were engaged on the first phase of the project to capture learning curve efficiencies. Drilling is ongoing and the project is anticipated to start up around midyear.
Let's now look at the 2016 and 2017 projects. We expect to complete nine projects over the next two years in 2016 and 2017 adding more than 400,000 oil equivalent barrels per day of capacity. In Australia, the Gorgon Jansz LNG project is about 90% complete. We remain committed to working with the co-ventures on a safe completion of the project. We anticipate meaningful production value and cash flow contributions in 2016. Offshore Abu Dhabi Upper Zakum is one of the world’s largest oil fields. ExxonMobil and its joint-venture partners are progressing field redevelopment to raise production capacity to 750,000 barrels per day.
Construction of four artificial islands is essentially complete. Drilling is ongoing from three of the islands and early production began in November of last year. Facility additions and drilling will continue over the next three years to reach the targeted production plateau. Let's now take a look at two projects, Hebron and Odoptu Stage 2. ExxonMobil is applying more than 90 years of Artic experience to the Hebron project in Eastern Canada which is expected to recover more than 700 million barrels of oil. Hebron is an example of how we sequence project development to reduce cost thereby adding value.
By synchronizing Hebron in the Arkutun-Dagi construction activities, we achieved significant learning curve efficiencies and cost savings. We’re applying design and execution experience related to complex, gravity-based structures and have used many of the same specialist contractors to build both of these facilities. Construction of the Hebron gravity-based structure is progressing. The photo shows it being towed to a deepwater site for additional completion activities. Once the platform topsides are installed, the facilities will be towed to its final location 230 miles offshore. The start-up is anticipated at the end of 2017 and will add a 150,000 barrels per day of gross production capacity.
Now let's look at the Odoptu Stage 2 project offshore Sakhalin Island. Odoptu Stage 2 is a phased expansion of the existing Odoptu development where we drilled world record-setting extended-reach wells in the shallow reservoir zones. The project develops an incremental 290 million barrels of oil more than doubling the total recovery from Odoptu to almost half a billion barrels of oil. We are extending our proven drilling and completion technologies to maximize recovery. Nine of the planned 32 wells are more than 7 miles in length. These record setting wells will reduce cost and minimize the environmental footprint eliminating offshore drilling in a sensitive area.
Well designs incorporate intelligent completion technology to enhance reservoir management and to maximize recovery. We’re expanding production facilities and adding a new well site to the south. Detailed design work is underway and site civil work is in progress. Odoptu Stage 2 will add 55,000 barrels per day of gross production capacity. Start-up at the northern well site expansion is expected in 2017, followed by the southern site in 2022.
Now I will give you an update on our LNG projects. We’re building upon a very strong global position to meet growing LNG demand. This map shows our global reach and range. ExxonMobil is a leading player of the development of the LNG industry through our existing equity interest and approximately 69 million tons per year of gross operating capacity in Qatar and Papua New Guinea. We’ll also participate in the 15.6 million tons of new LNG capacity being added by Gorgon.
We’re capitalizing on our world-class experience, technological capabilities and our LNG marketing expertise as we progress a number of new opportunities to grow our LNG portfolio as shown by the red dots. We maintain our disciplined investing approach with these opportunities. And we will choose to invest only in the most attractive projects with stable, competitive fiscal terms that create long-term value. All the projects we just reviewed are underpinned by our best-in-class project execution results.
The graph on the left illustrates how ExxonMobil leads competition on schedule and cost performance. Decades of project management experience, engineering expertise and effective contractor interface delivers superior cost and scheduled performance along with say reliable facilities that will operate for decades. In short, we complete comparable projects more timely and at lower cost than our competitors. Each project is reappraised for performance and learnings are incorporated into future project planning and design, further strengthening our capabilities.
Now let's take a look at our US onshore portfolio. We continue to focus on higher-margin liquids growth mainly through development of our Bakken, Permian and Ardmore/Marietta core plays. Liquids-rich drilling represented more than 85% of our operated rigs in 2014. The chart illustrates planned production growth of more than 150,000 barrels per day by 2017. Our US onshore portfolio is resilient. The high quality and scale of our resources in these core plays deliver attractive returns through the cycle including in the current price environment.
We have the financial strength to develop these plays through the cycle which provides the opportunity to capture significant cost savings in this changing market. We’ve taken a measured pace on how we’ve developed our Lower 48 unconventional resources which we will maintain as we move forward. In the Bakken, we increased net production by 38% last year, which reflects the addition of 144 new wells, increased well productivity and accelerated pad development in our core acreage. We averaged 13 operated rigs in 2014 and we will likely average close to that level this year.
In the Ardmore/Marietta, this is an area in Southern Oklahoma. We grew production by roughly 30% in 2014 principally through a mixture of pad development on our core Ardmore acreage and delineation drilling in the Marietta area to the south. Overall 10 rigs were utilized in 2014. We added 89 new wells including 12 in the less mature Marietta area.
Let's take a closer look at the Permian on the next slide. The Permian basin is key to our US onshore growth. Production will materially increase between now and 2017 as we capture the upside of vast legacy leasehold positions that now exceed 1.5 million net acres. Our position in the Permian continues to expand. In 2014, we added roughly 65,000 acres through three transactions which doubled our acreage in the core of the Wolfcamp play in the Midland basin. Year-end 2014 volumes were more than 100,000 net equivalent barrels per day which was up 15% from the prior year.
The increase largely reflects optimization activities on our legacy central basin platform properties. Future growth will be driven by horizontal drilling in the Wolfcamp. The application of horizontal drilling combined with the hydraulic fracturing enables commercial production from a large area that was previously viewed as non-economic. In 2014, we completed 16 horizontal wells and are encouraged by the initial productivity. We continue to delineate the Wolfcamp A and B reservoirs and had 8 operated rigs at the end of the year.
As I mentioned earlier, our financial returns in the Permian are enhanced by ExxonMobil’s integration across the oil and gas value chain. Let's move now to improving capital efficiency of our onshore operations. We're driving down costs and increasing recovery in each of our unconventional plays. The chart on the left highlights our success in lowering cost by reducing drilling days per well. In the Marcellus Shale for example, our drilling days and costs have decreased by nearly 50% since XTO entered the play.
We’ve improved despite longer laterals which have resulted in a 12% increase in the measured depth of wells drilled during this period. The chart on the right illustrates continuous improvement in the Bakken where our initial 7-day production rates have increased by 90% since 2011 and completion cost per stage have declined 40%. Another key factor reducing cost is our ability to move quickly in a rapidly changing price environment. XTO benefits from established vendor and contractor relationships with flexible contractual commitments.
XTO also gains flexibility from an agile, decentralized procurement strategy backed by the corporation’s financial strength and the depth of XTO’s drilling inventory, we can appropriately respond to changes in the price cycle. Technology in the unconventional space is a competitive advantage for XTO and it is further strengthened by the integration with ExxonMobil’s upstream research company. This collaboration is helping to reduce costs and improve recovery. For example, ExxonMobil’s drilling advisory system has been deployed in the Ardmore to promote application of our fast drill technology.
Lower cost and increased well productivity facilitate an efficient, long-term approach to play development and create value across the cycle. Through operational excellence, ExxonMobil is delivering industry-leading reliability performance. As the graphic shows, we’ve improved and sustained strong reliability performance to maximize the value of our installed production capacity. Simply stated, the incremental barrel that remains online is the most profitable. Our performance is driven by proactive and rigorous management systems along with high standards and a culture of excellence within our global operating organizations.
This improved reliability as illustrated equates to 90,000 net oil equivalent barrels per day of production over the past three years. This is the equivalent volume addition from a major project that would typically cost $5 billion to $10 billion. For comparison, we have achieved nearly a 25% better reliability over the past five years versus comparable assets that we hold that are operated by others. We continue focusing on the fundamentals that underpin our approach to operating excellence including well and facility surveillance and optimization, and on deploying advanced technology through our operations.
We’ve improved the profitability of each asset through our disciplined and consistent approach to cost management. We employ tailored contracting strategies to capture market-driven efficiencies and share best practices through our global operations. Cost management is deeply embedded in our culture and we expect to lead the cost curve in these current business conditions. As you can see, we continue to outperform our peer group on total unit cost performance. As part of our ongoing work to improve organizational effectiveness and cost competitiveness, we are bringing most of our employees to the new campus in north of Houston.
It has been designed to encourage more efficient and effective collaboration and innovation across all of our integrated business lines. In summary, our upstream business is well positioned to unlock maximum resource value. Our disciplined investment approach improves our asset mix, we pursue high-quality additions to our resource base and are developing a broad, diverse project portfolio. We deploy our world-class project management expertise to grow higher-margin production and through operational excellence, we maximize the value of our installed capacity.
So next, I’ll talk a bit about our downstream and chemical portfolio. ExxonMobil is blessed with world-class downstream and chemical businesses. We are one of the largest integrated refiners, a premier marketer of fuels and lubes, the largest manufacturer of lubricant base stocks, and one of the largest chemical companies in the world. And we’re the most profitable integrated downstream and chemical business in the industry.
The foundation of this success is our commitment to operational excellence ranging from safety and environmental performance to reliability and asset utilization. We strive to be flawless in each of these areas. We build on this strong foundation of disciplined operations with a relentless focus on efficiencies, margin improvement and attractive investments. In line with this, we are selectively investing to improve feedstock flexibility, grow high-value products, drive energy efficiency and increase our logistics capabilities.
These investments capitalize on ExxonMobil’s technology leadership, our scale and the integration, and position us to continue to outperform competition across the business cycle. As shown on this chart, we’re progressing a diverse and balanced portfolio of attractive downstream and chemical investments around the world. These projects are scheduled to start up by 2017. They will capitalize on value-chain opportunities from advantaged raw materials and logistics to high-value product growth across our fuels, lubricants and chemicals businesses.
First, I'll speak to the downstream where we’re investing to capture value chain opportunities in North America. Our integration with the upstream positions us to benefit from growth in North American crude oil and natural gas liquid supplies, which reduces raw material and energy costs. As the chart shows, we’ve the industry’s largest refining capacity in the Mid-Continent and Gulf coast regions, which are well-positioned to benefit from the growing domestic liquid supply. Since 2010, we’ve expanded our advantaged domestic crude runs by more than 50%.
We utilized turnarounds for capital-efficient facility upgrades. For example, we completed a low-cost metallurgy upgrade project at our Beaumont refinery to expand heavy Canadian crude processing capacity. We are also expanding capacity to run high sulfur crudes in Baton Rouge. Midstream investments will expand logistics capabilities for both crude oil and finished products, including the Edmonton rail terminal that I mentioned previously. On the product side, we will continue to strengthen our domestic and export logistics. Global demand for high-value products continues to grow.
Over the past four years, we’ve increased distillate production in North America by more than 20%. Projects under way at our Gulf Coast refineries will further expand production of high-value distillate products including jet fuel and low sulfur diesel. Finally, we are leveraging our world-class marketing organization to grow high-value product channels such as our branded retail fuels network. Despite the competitive market for gasoline sales in the US, our retail store count and associated volumes increased for the second straight year.
Turning now to European refining. While challenging market conditions exist in Europe, we are investing in our most advantaged sites to increase high-value product yields and improve margins. Europe currently has an excess of refining capacity. However the market lacks sufficient capability to convert fuel oil into cleaner fuels such as low sulfur diesel. Diesel demand in Europe is growing and will continue to do so for the remaining -- for several decades. In contrast, fuel oil demand is expected to decline reflecting government regulations requiring low sulfur content in marine fuel.
In response to these changing market dynamics, we are selectively investing in some of the largest low-cost refineries in Western Europe to strengthen competitiveness in this evolving business environment. We’ve started construction of a 50,000 barrel per day delayed coker at our Antwerp Refinery in Belgium shown here in the photo. Antwerp is one of the most cost advantaged sites in Western Europe. The new facility will upgrade bunker fuel oil currently produced in our North Europe refineries converting it to higher value products such as ultra low sulfur diesel and marine gas oil. The start-up is planned for 2017.
We’re also utilizing our product technology expertise and branded retail network to capture increasing consumer demand for diesel fuels with improved performance. We’ve introduced a new premium diesel product in key European countries that are growing sales of this higher value fuel. In addition to selective investments, we continue to evaluate opportunities to high-grade our portfolio and increase shareholder value. We continue to grow our premium finished lubricants business and expand our high-performance lube base stock capacity.
We’re increasing finished lubricant manufacturing capacity in China and Finland to support growing sales of our industry-leading products including Mobil 1 and Mobil Super. We achieved record sales of these premium products in 2014. In Louisiana, we are expanding lubricant manufacturing capability to maximize production of our latest generation of synthetic aviation turbine oil. ExxonMobil is the largest manufacturer of lube base stocks, and we recently completed four projects to increase high-performance base stock capacity at our world-scale integrated sites.
These new facilities use our latest technology to manufacture synthetic and premium hydro-processed base stocks. We expanded global synthetic base stock capacity by 25% through projects in Baytown and Baton Rouge. Additional projects in Baytown in Singapore increased premium base stocks by 40% and the additional capacity is already sold out. These investments position us to capture strong demand growth for these advanced lubricants. ExxonMobil Chemical benefits from a unique portfolio of commodity and specialty products and we are progressing attractive projects around the globe to expand our capacity.
In North America, our manufacturing sites benefit from scale, integration and low-cost feedstock and energy driven by the abundant natural gas and natural gas liquids. As shown by the chart, we’ve increased the volume of low-cost ethane processed by our steam crackers in the United States. Our facilities produce a higher percentage of ethylene from ethane than the industry average. We’re extending that advantage with the construction of a 1.5 million ton per year ethylene plant at our complex in Baytown. We’re also building two of the largest polyethylene product lines in the industry at the nearby Mont Belvieu plastics plant.
These units will convert the new ethylene production to a mixed slate of products including premium metallocene polyethylene. We expect start-up in 2017. In Saudi Arabia, we are working with our joint-venture partner on a first of its kind specialty elastomers facility. This world-scale 400,000 ton per year facility will be integrated with our existing Al Jubail plant and produce specialty synthetic rubber, polyethylene elastomers and carbon black. Construction is on plan and on budget and start up is expected this year.
In Singapore construction is underway on a new world-scale facility that will capture additional value from our recent steam cracker expansion. The new capacity will produce premium synthetic rubber for the growing tire market and premium resins for adhesive applications. Plant startup is in 2017 and will strengthen our leading global position for these high-value and higher-growth products. Across the board, these brownfield investments benefit from advantaged technologies and site integration which drive capital efficiencies and lower our production cost.
And while we’re extending our North American ethane advantage, our liquids crackers in Europe and Asia are benefiting from improved margins in the current environment. Ultimately, a key measure of long-term financial success of our business is return on capital employed. As you can see, our downstream and chemical businesses have a return on capital employed that outperforms the competition across the business cycle. During the last five years, these businesses generated $49 billion of earnings. In the current market environment, ExxonMobil benefits greatly from our large and profitable downstream and chemical businesses.
These businesses are resilient to lower commodity prices and continue to generate solid cash flow helping us deliver on our commitments throughout the cycle. Our superior financial performance is driven by our proven business strategies and ongoing competitive advantages. These include the integrated model, our balanced portfolio and proprietary technologies that increase the value of our products. Our disciplined capital management processes result in the best asset mix in the business. We’re concentrating new investments on our integrated sites.
By doing so, we’re better able to capture advantaged feedstocks and logistics, reduce our operating costs and grow high-value products to further strengthen the portfolio. We also continue to upgrade the portfolio in thoughtful ways that add to shareholder value. Since 2005, we’ve reduced our refining capacity by more than 1 million barrels per day and returned cash to our shareholders by divesting smaller and less competitive facilities. Altogether, we’ve the best downstream and chemical businesses in the industry and we are well positioned to maintain our lead in the years to come.
Now let me hand it back to Jeff who is going to take us to a break I believe.
Jeff Woodbury
So we are in that part of our agenda where we’re going to take a quick 15 minute break. Following that break, Rex will come back up for just a very brief summary of the material that you just heard. And as I indicated at the onset, that the management committee will join Rex here in the stage for a question-and-answer period. So in order to maximize the question period, I would ask that we're all back in our seats promptly by let's say 10:35. Thank you.
Jeff Woodbury
Okay, we will go ahead and get kicked off again. And certainly a lot of questions during the break timeframe that we can go ahead and reengage here in a moment. So without further adieu, I’ll go ahead and turn it back over to Rex.
Rex Tillerson
Thanks Jeff. So I hope what we’ve shared with you today provides you with an appreciation of the various ways ExxonMobil approaches the business, always with this view towards creating that value for our shareholders, regardless of where we find ourselves in this very cyclical commodity that is at the heart of our business.
So I want to leave you with just a few final thoughts to recap what we’ve talked about today. We’re extremely well positioned to provide the industry leadership to meet the world's growing energy needs. And we are delivering on our commitments, we take our commitments very seriously. We are disappointed in ourselves when we don't achieve those. And we’re committed to delivering on those commitments and we’re committed to continuing to demonstrate that we are different. We can differentiate what we do and how we do it from others.
Our strategy, our competitive advantages, the high-quality assets, the exceptional investment opportunities provide the foundation for the superior long-term shareholder returns, and will help supply the energy needed to fuel this global economy which is just going to continue to have an enormous appetite. So I do want to thank you for your interest. I thank you for being here today. I thank all of you who are listening or watching on the webcast for your interest in the ExxonMobil Corporation. It is our job to work on behalf of our shareholders and do things in a way that they will be proud of us. And that is our commitment.
So with that I want to bring the management committee up to join me on the stage. So this is my team, the guys that live with me in the office there in Irving. And we sit around and talk about what are we going to do in this situation together in my office, at lunch. We kind of live together. So I am proud to bring them up and see if they can answer some of your questions.
So let me first just make a quick comment around the team here. Jack Williams on the far right, Jack has the responsibility for the Global Producing Operations. He also has responsibility for the Upstream Research Activities. Mark Albers has responsibility for the Global Exploration and Development Activities. Andy Swiger runs our Global Gas and Power Marketing Organization. He also is our Principal Financial Officer and enjoys life in the regulatory lane. Mike Dolan manages our Global Chemicals Company as well as our Fuels and Lubes Marketing Activities.
Darren Wood has responsibility for the Global Refining Operations, and EMRE ExxonMobil Research and Engineering and project activities that support both refining and chemicals. So that's the team and at this point I welcome your questions. And we’ve got microphones, obviously if you will wait for those so people on the webcast can hear.
Question-and-Answer Session
Q - Doug Terreson
Doug Terreson, Evercore ISI. Rex, returns on capital have kind of been on a downward trend over the past five and 10 years. And with capital employed growing by more than enterprise value, the market seems to believe that, that trend may continue. So while you specified higher growth today on one of your slides, my question is how much of a priority is higher absolute, not relative returns on capital for ExxonMobil?
And if it is important, do you think you can achieve it through the current plan, or do you need to use some of the alternative areas like maybe portfolio management or more productivity, and maybe a different way of thinking on capital investment? So is higher returns on capital important and can you get there with the current plan is the question?
Rex Tillerson
Yes, it remains a priority with us. First and foremost to be a leader in our industry and in our sector, but we also recognize investors have a broad choice out there in the market. So we also want to be competitive and continue to demonstrate an ability to deliver with high confidence a return on capital. I think as you acknowledged or as you described, you know over the last few years that has been coming down because of the intense capital programs that have been underway. And we’ve had some conversation about this in past analyst meetings that, that we entered a period of pretty intense recapitalization in our upstream portfolio in particular, that we were looking at the resource base we have.
We are looking at the current state of properties and had a view that we needed to rebuild the future production base for the corporation. And in doing so, we did you know all the things you described in terms of focusing on cost reductions and trying to be as capital efficient as you can be. And to put in place production profiles that have a different characteristic than had been our history. You know which in conventional volumes you develop and then they enter a decline phase and then you try to mitigate that.
So we’ve talked over the years how we’ve added a lot of what we characterize as plateau production. And that's to provide some stabilization going forward around cash flows and what not. So it remains a priority, it has been particularly challenging probably more, I would acknowledge it's been more challenging than we anticipated going into that period, which is about a 5 to 6-7 year. Because we did not anticipate the price environment and we were talking a little bit about this in the break. We never anticipated that kind of a price environment.
And therefore we never anticipated the overheated market environment we would find ourselves in. So I would readily acknowledge to you, we’ve put more capital into these resources than we originally intended to driven by the market conditions. Now what do we do about that? Well as we’ve executed those projects, it means we’ve done our best to be very capital efficient, avoid the big mistakes that others have -- that we see others making. Because your mistakes in a project execution in an overheated market environment become amplified. And you live with them for a long time and we’ve got some projects where we own some of that.
So it's really been to concentrate and I think it's really challenged our project execution organizations to be as efficient as they can, because they recognize that environment they are in. And then once we do start those up, the producing organization even with the help of the resources and the ongoing help of the development company continue to grind away on how do we get the cost down further? How do we put more barrels under that fixed investment cost? How do we improve the reliability, because that's why I had that chart in there. Because once you’ve made the investment, you need to keep the asset performing and a 5% downtime is a killer.
You know so, every percent of downtime you can eliminate so the producing organization is intensely focused. All of that is recognizing that we’ve had to make, we’ve made some investments. We didn’t have to, we made them. We made some investments in a fairly overheated environment which means we’ve a higher fixed cost around them now. The challenge of the organizations are, you’ve to create the value that we didn’t capture in the investment phase. Now you got to create it in other ways and that's what they concentrate on.
And the final outcome and we will produce that return that you are alluding to, but I do want to emphasize again. It remains a priority in our organization and every one of the business lines tracks themselves as well. They want to know and they need to know where are they and how are they performing.
Blake Fernandez
Thank you, it's Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil. Exxon is obviously well-positioned for this macro downturn much more so than some of your partners. And the question is around the 16 projects that underpin your growth through 2017. Is there a risk that some of you partners may not be as willing to invest through the cycle in, which case maybe some of those projects get delayed? Thanks.
Rex Tillerson
Well, I think and I can go back and look at the list again and I might ask Mark to help me out here. But I think most of the projects that we were talking about that will contribute to growth in 15,16, 17 they are already funded and they are underway. So the likelihood of stepping away from those is pretty low at this stage. And as I indicated, we’ve a few FIDs in front of us that we are being very careful and ensuring that we are capturing what we can out of the correction in this business environment. But Mark, do you want to add anything?
Mark Albers
No, that captures it. It’s all projects are underway and in execution.
Rex Tillerson
So any impacts are going to come post 17.
Paul Sankey
Thanks Rex. It’s Paul Sankey with Wolfe Research. Thinking back at the 13-year record that you talked about, year after year you’ve shown growing reserves and resource, but really your volumes are flat. Is that an issue with booking or development or how do we get, how do we square that circle?
Rex Tillerson
I think, I would direct your attention Paul on what's left the resource base. Because a lot of what's left the resource base or left our producing volumes were things that we show to take out of our portfolio. You know they were low margin and Abu Dhabi, obviously you know about the concession expiring there. And we’ve chosen not to pursue participation in that in the future, at least not under the current terms. If that changes, we’ll always take a look. So Abu Dhabi coming out, asset sales that we have elected to make that are still producing and are still profitable.
The barrels are still profitable. But as we view their future, you know they are nearing end of life. For us, they would be challenged to compete for investment dollars in our portfolio. And so we market those, and we find others who value them highly, value them certainly well above our retention value, so out the door they go. Whenever we make the volume projections, we always, and I made the caveat again. You know it can change for a whole -- I will give you the long alphabet soup reasons of why, among which is divestments can change that.
So in terms of moving discovered resources into proved undeveloped and then proved developed, if you look at the track of that over the last decade, there’s been little change at the pace of progress of moving things in the resource base to proved undeveloped to developed and moving them on.
Paul Sankey
If I could ask a follow-up. Again looking back over the previous meetings, you’ve generally given a longer-term outlook than the one you’ve given here in terms of volume. So we are only going to 2017, did you -- is that a reflection of losing Russia or some other reason why we don't have a post-17 view?
Rex Tillerson
No, I think as we were thinking about this and talking with you today, there are you know -- and the environment we’re in, there are some moving parts going on that have a lot of effects on our future volumes. And I think, I'll just be frank with you. My comfort level in trying to say much more beyond the next couple of years gets a little -- I mean a little less comfortable giving you some indication that you would, you know go take to the bank so to speak. We are very comfortable and kind of to the earlier question about things that between 2015, 2016 and 2017, we’re very pretty confident with that outlook.
And even with the impact on changes in North America, we are pretty you know we are very comfortable with that. Beyond that, there are some things that, as I indicated we are looking at FID decisions on. We’re having to wait on in some cases discussions with partners and projects we don't operate, where they have indicated they are relooking at some things. So the timing of a few things that might have had an impact out there are a little more uncertain. And so I just felt that it’s not really useful to go beyond what we feel fairly confident in describing to you.
Ed Westlake
Thanks. Ed Westlake, Credit Suisse. So a follow-on to that. I mean when you look at your post-2017 project list and obviously I accept everything is changing. There’s LNG, there’s heavy oil, there’s deepwater in the Gulf and then deepwater in West Africa and I'm sure I am forgetting some projects. But can you give us a sense of which are the key buckets that you feel probably have to move to the right the most, given the fall in the commodity price relative to the cost structure of those projects? And then I have a follow on.
Rex Tillerson
I don't know that there’s a particular region or area that I would say is -- you know steps out, leaps out and says well this has got to slide. It's very much unique to the opportunity, and the characteristic of the opportunity and the challenges that may be around that opportunity. In the case of our LNG portfolio and we highlighted that, we’ve a number of opportunities from which to choose. And whether we do one or we do them all, clearly there will be a sequencing to those. You know because we’re only going to take on what we can effectively execute as well.
And we’re only going to take on what we know the market is ready for as well. And so, we’re you know we’re going through a pretty robust examination of that portfolio today. And thinking about what’s the correct sequence of those opportunities, most of which would appear in that post-17, certainly late-17 and post-17 timeframe if we get started, you know if we make a choice now. So I wouldn’t say there’s any particular area that leaps out as being disadvantaged in this environment.
Ed Westlake
And my follow-on might be a bit of a softball, but it’s important. I mean obviously there’s a lot of focus here in America on shale. But mega projects drive most of the reserve replacement in the industry, and the industry has not been very good at delivering those mega projects relative to yourself. Why do you think that is the case and do you see any signs of improvement?
Rex Tillerson
Well I think, I'll talk -- I will really talk more about what we do and as compared to what others do. And I really, you know this goes all the way back to the merger time when we created the global functional structure, and created the development company in the upstream really a year before the merger. And it was a recognition to your point, that this is where our future is going to be. It wasn't in drilling 500 wells and then in the lower 48. It was in very complicated resource development of very large resources.
And that as we had undertaken a few of those back in the 80s, we weren't very good at it. And we made a lot of mistakes and had a lot of problems and it cost us a lot of value. And so there’s a view that we -- what we needed to develop was an expertise in this area that no one had. Prior to that, the industry by and large relied upon the contractor community to deliver that expertise. And what we learned is it’s fragmented, it's not well coordinated and so we created the development company. So the difference between what we’re able to do today and what others is largely, that is it.
It’s as simple as that. And no one else and this has surprised me, although others have kind of made stabs at it. You know, in deepwater they have got a group, but no one has taken this complete integrated approach that we took to develop an organization that is highly skilled, highly talented and this is what they do. And because of that, they have a network with the best contractors out there, who also know how we do it. And we do it the same way every time. And it allows them to create savings that they deliver to us.
Because they know, when they're going to work on the project with us this is how it’s going to be. And when they bid, they [pass] and that's why they win the bid. They understand and they pass along that savings to us. So it’s really a result of developing that capability and others have not done it. And I can't answer why they haven’t, but they just haven’t. And we see it, because as you know about half of our investments are in projects we don't operate. So we’re looking inside of that and we try to bring a lot of what we know, because we have investment dollars but we are not in charge.
We are not in charge of the execution. We are not in charge of the delivery. So we do see that difference and it is interesting that others have for whatever reason have chosen to kind of stay with an older model, I would say.
Evan Calio
Thanks. Evan Calio, Morgan Stanley. You provided a longer-term outlook for supply and demand on the commodity yet to clearly what’s on -- occupying in investors’ thoughts today are the shape and duration of the current commodity cycle. And I was wondering if you could share your views on that recovery and is there -- could we imply that you think it's a shallower cycle given the outspend or buyback or continued growth in North America which is different than many E&Ps?
Rex Tillerson
Well, it’s you know the current price environment we’re in and what we’ve been through is reflective of just supply demand fundamentals. It's no more complicated than that. We, all of us have been watching as demand has been pretty lackluster over the last two or three years due to economic performance in Europe, declining demand. US pretty flat. China had kind of been holding this thing up and then Chinese demand took a rate of change, a correction. All of that in the face of this North American supply coming on at a million barrels a day and another million barrels a day, it is just coming like a freight train into this demand picture.
The geopolitical events of the world were keeping some supplies disrupted. And so, I think that's what supported things for a long time until last year the market began to realize what was happening. And I think that's when the correction occurred. So it’s simply supply outstripping demand. In terms of the duration, it's always hard to say the duration, but I would just make a few observations. One, I think the North American tight oil supply is more resilient than some people think it is. And I would draw some -- not direct correlation, but I would draw some analogy from the shale gas experience of the last 5 to 7 years where reductions of rig counts [Technical Difficulty].
Where rig counts went from north of 1600, down to 280 today and gas capacity went from 55 billion cubic feet a day to 74 billion cubic feet a day, a 50% increase in a declining rig environment, and a terribly declining price environment, $8.25 to south of $3. Now I am not suggesting you're going to have a lay down on tight oil, but I think there are a few lessons you can learn from observing that. So I think the first comment, I’ll make is I think North America tight oil is going to be more resilient than some people think it's going to be.
Second, you still have an enormous amount of global capacity that is tied up in geopolitically unstable areas. And it’s not available or it’s certainly not available with any kind of reliability. So whether it’s Libya or it’s Iraq achieving its production aspirations or it’s other pick a country, pick any region of the world, there is a lot of supply capacity out there that if things stabilize in that region, there’s another new source coming. So I think, my view is people need to kind of settle in for a while and I couldn’t tell you how long that's going to be.
And a geopolitical event could change it tomorrow, you know could change everything. Now when I look at fundamentals, there’s a lot of supply out there and I don't see a particularly healthy global economy. And so it's going to take both, it's going to take -- we’re going to have to have some economic performance, increase the demand requirement in order for this thing to begin to unwind itself.
Evan Calio
Do you know that environment provides an opportunity for Exxon and particularly through a downcycle given the balance sheet, your flexibility cash flow for consolidation?
Rex Tillerson
Yeah, it provides us a whole lot of different kinds of opportunities, not just in terms of accessing new resources through various means. But getting the cost structure back to where we believe it’s more appropriate. So, yeah this provides us a whole host of opportunities to strengthen our underlying fundamental business and be well positioned than for whatever happens in the future. And that's really the way we’ve always conducted our affairs is we try to build this thing, so that we can -- we’ll be fine in the downturns.
We may not be as exciting in the downturns, but we will be fine because there’s going to be a lot of opportunities coming in the downturn. And then when things go back up, we’ll reward the shareholder like we’ve done over the last 5,6,7 years given tremendous amounts of cash back to shareholder, because we can -- that's when we can do that. So yes, there are no question, there are some good opportunities in front of us right now.
Asit Sen
Thanks. Asit Sen from Cowen and Company. Rex, you mentioned Exxon is a partner of choice globally. And in the current environment are you seeing host governments more willing to reexamine fiscal terms and like what we saw in West Qurna last year?
Rex Tillerson
Yeah, this type of an environment, I think clearly makes it easier in many respects for host resource owners, host governments to talk about things that we wanted to talk about for some time with them. You know they represent their citizens, so there is always a political element to any engagement, whether resource owner or host government. And so when you are in an environment like this, it’s easier for their people to understand why they are having to have these conversations as well.
So as we approach governments around the investment decisions that we might be considering, maybe we were coming up on an investment decision and we really need to do something to improve the viability of this, they are certainly open to talking about that. Obviously, it will vary country to country in terms of how willing they are to do something different. But I think most of the resource owners, they are pragmatic as well. You know they want the investment and they want the development. They want the volumes to be produced, because that's what's going to deliver the value to them and to their people.
And so what they really want to know is look, how are we going to keep moving forward. That's the real -- well what do we need to do to keep moving forward. And I think as long as you take a balanced view of that and nobody tries to overplay that situation, and we don’t -- we always take a view that look, we are going to be here for decades. We’re going to be here for 50-60 years. We don’t need to have somebody mad 10 years from now when the situation turns because they feel we took advantage of them. So it has to work for everybody, it has to work for both sides.
And so we’ve those conversations and we’re trying to make sure everything understands it and see if we can keep moving things forward. But it’s a good illustration of why some of these things, the timing moves in kind of ebbs and flows. Because often times, it’s trying to get all the parties that are involved satisfied with where we’re going. And generally we take whatever time it takes to do that because as I said, we’re going to be here a long time. We’d like to be friends for a long time.
Asit Sen
Okay, I’ve a quick follow-up on, remind us of the upcoming FIDs this year. I know Golden Pass is probably year end?
Rex Tillerson
Let met have Mark speak to that and then I don't know if we’ve got any on the downstream chemical side in front of us.
Mark Albers
Probably the most material FID that we’re working with our partners on are at Tengiz and Kazakhstan. And that's a good example of what Rex mentioned earlier where we’re looking at FID timing that had earlier been scheduled and done last year. But we’re taking advantage of this environment to go back to renegotiate all the contracts and get the cost down, get further along on the detail design. So that when we do go out to the market, we’ve got a really good definition of what it is we want to build. And so that if we’re able to be successful with all that, that's probably the most material FID that would come near the end of the year.
Rex Tillerson
Okay, anything on the downstream side or chemical side?
Unidentified Company Representative
Yeah, probably the most material thing we are looking at today, we’ve got a number of projects we are looking at in North America just logistics and see how things develop and take our time to see where the market shakes out and whether there are any opportunities in the North American side. And then in Europe, we’ve got as Rex mentioned the Antwerp project. We’ve also got Rotterdam, which is a very advantaged refinery there and we’re looking for opportunities to upgrade some of the streams at Rotterdam.
Doug Leggate
Thanks, Rex. Doug Leggate from Bank of America. Rex, we’ve heard you talk about doubling your shale production capacity, your liquids capacity over the next couple of years. But can you help, you know juxtapose that against Exxon’s focus on returns? Because when you look at the type of value you get out of a shale well, the structure of the curve and the fact that costs really haven’t fallen yet. Why not slow things down? You’ve seen a lot of your peers talk about that. I am just curious on Exxon’s perspective and I’ve got a follow up please.
Rex Tillerson
Well let me give you just a broad answer and then I'm going to let Jack talk more specifically about it because he also has responsibility for XTO with his upstream portfolio. But again, I think you know we have spent the last few years in an appraisal mode and we’ve talked about that. That's why we’ve not, we didn’t ramp things up and get crazy just because the price was high. We want to know how do you get the most out of these rocks and these resources in the most cost efficient way.
And so we take a lot of time to understand it and we’ll operate and appraise it at a fairly low level. And then when we think we’ve got it, then we gradually bring things up so that the organization can plow everything into the next well, the next foot of drilling. Because it is all about those curves I showed you in terms of driving the cost down. Now I think it might surprise a lot of people as to how attractive some of these things are in this environment. So maybe I’ll let Jack maybe talk a little bit more and could give a couple of examples and a couple of basins even.
Jack Williams
Yeah, thanks Rex. If you look at since back to 2010 when XTO became part of our portfolio, we had about 12 rigs drilling in the kind of big three liquids plays that we talk about today, the Bakken, the Permian and Woodford in the Ardmore and Marietta. And today we’ve got that 45 and that's been a real gradual step up. We’ve plenty of time to incorporate the learnings as we go on and so look at just like for instance the Bakken today. The wells we’re drilling in the Bakken and the cost we’re seeing in the Bakken are substantially different than were back in 2010.
We’re putting many more stages into the fracs, our costs are down, you know 20%-25%. So the Bakken wells are much more productive wells than they were just 3-4 years ago. And as we’ve looked at, of course we run economics on every single well that we drill. And we’re not going to go take any investment decisions on anything that doesn’t make sense on certainly today's prices. But also as Rex has said several times before, a wide range of prices. So you know back 2-3 years when we saw the $100 pricing that was in our range of what we looked at.
But it didn't require, oil wells didn't require a $100 a barrel to make sense. So you know we probably looked at 60-80 harder than we looked at 100 plus, so we looked at a wide range 40-120. And as you look at today's environment, you know you are probably going to look more in 40 to 60 than you are at the higher numbers, although we’ll continue to run them over a range of prices. So if it didn't need a 100 to make sense and actually we’ve gotten the cost -- the cost will come down pretty considerably. And we are seeing in the oil plays are a 20% to 25% cost reductions.
Most people have been talking about cost reductions in that range, maybe not that significant. We think since we have the continuity of program, you know we may be attracting a little more in that regard. So when you look at those kinds of cost reductions and wells that were resilient in the base case, you know they still don't make sense. They still don't make sense today. And if they don't, you know we can down here pretty quickly. Two thirds of our rigs have terms with less than 90 day cancellations. So if price drops significantly and costs don't drop significantly, going forward we’ll adjust.
We're in no hurry to continue this journey, but the size is big. It's very material. We could continue drilling the plays I talked about at today's levels for another 20 years, but that's our inventory. In natural gas, our inventory is 4 to 5 times that amount.
Rex Tillerson
Yeah, I think it's important to recognize that the way the upstream manages its investment portfolio, every item is stacked in there. So these wells that Jack is talking about have to complete with the next best opportunity on a return base. And it's largely, they are looking at the return on investment and then obviously they are looking at impact on earnings and cash and all the other things that are important. But it kind of starts with the return base [indiscernible]. And so I think you know they clearly are attracted to us or we wouldn't be doing it.
Doug Leggate
Thanks, my follow up. You’ve taken a considerable hit over the last several years from entitlement volumes and production sharing contracts when oil moved up to a 100 bucks. Your planning basis as far as I can tell is $55 now, why are we not seeing some give back in the 4.3 target? Thanks.
Rex Tillerson
Well, there’s a lot of puts and takes when you try to take them to account. Price and entitlement affects, things that move in and out, or the portfolios we adjust. So you know we are not getting into a specific number that I would assign to price and entitlement, other than what Jeff shares with you on the quarterly calls. It is not a linear effect I would tell you that and we just pick a $55 number, not because we think that's it. But because we need to give you something to tie it to, okay.
But I would say in terms of meeting the volume projection that we gave you this year, there is a lot of -- there are if you did a line by line, there is a lot of ins and outs in there. Price entitlement effects are one of them. Because you know clearly we are making some adjustments, we are not just blindly going forward without looking at everything that's in that portfolio again.
Roger Read
Thank you. Roger Read, Wells Fargo. The returns to shareholders you have delivered over the last five years, high oil price environment now, a lower oil price environment. You just did a bond deal at a very attractive yield. CapEx down a little bit, but not a lot. If we assume $55 probably more bond deals would come, but I guess what I really want to understand is as you look at the potential for shareholder returns over say the next three years since that's what the production outlook goes to. And the potential necessity to use the balance sheet, how do you weigh maybe more CapEx cuts versus faster dividend or slower dividend growth? And then what would you do at the balance sheet and how much may be are you willing to absorb into the balance sheet?
Rex Tillerson
Well I think it's -- and it really starts with the cash question. Okay, so we generate cash. And the question is, so what do you do with the cash? And our view for quite some time has been the first layer of cash goes to the shareholder through dividends. And so we are committed to it and we are committed to a growing dividend. That's the shareholders’ money that we invested, it is the shareholders’ money that generated the cash. They deserve to have some of that back. So that's the first layer that comes out of the cash.
Then the next thing is we look at our investment opportunities and you know how much do we think we can execute well. And generally we have a very robust set of opportunities and that's why we talk about the selectivity. And it really is based on their attractiveness, how robust they are when we test them. And then how much we undertake as really an organizational capacity itself to execute well along with what we see in the market capacity as well. Because we have been through a period where the market capacity was under a lot of stress which is why it got overheated.
So we also judge not only our own internal capacity, but the capacity of the contract force that has to help us execute these. And if we are uncomfortable with that that capacity is not there, then we will shift some things around as well. But the second priority then is to fund the investments. And then if we have done that and there’s still excess cash available, we’ve given it back to the shareholders through [T] share repurchases. And certainly in the period we’ve been through, we’ve been doing a lot of cash. And we don't like to leave the cash just sitting on the balance sheet.
We don’t think that's a good use of it and we don't think it's fair to the shareholder. So as the cash generates, we ramp up the [T] share program, we try to do that in fairly deliberate steps and not get real knee-jerk. That's why we don’t like to do special dividends. There was a hue and cry for special dividends. We like to keep things apparently predictable. And so when things come down, we certainly try to be pretty stepwise with it and not jerk things around too much. And so we obviously have reduced the [T] share program which we announced in light of what our cash has been doing.
And we started taking some steps, you know some stepwise reductions last year. We can manage our affairs this way, because we have this enormous capacity on the balance sheet. And so now is the time that you use that to manage through this transitional period. And so we use the balance sheet, as you know that we had a very successful placement yesterday. But we are borrowing in the markets to fund our investment programs. That's why we borrow.
We don’t borrow to buy back shares, although a lot of people advocate for us to do that. If you want to think about, we borrowed it to buy the $4 billion of shares this year, if that makes you happy go think about it that way. I mean we borrowed in at [T+] 30 basis points. So yeah if you are a financial engineer there is magic in that. Okay, but that's not why we did it. It's really so we can manage these things in a fairly thoughtful, smooth way. But we borrowed because we have an investment program that we believe is attractive.
And even on the longer-term yields in that borrowing, you know someone wants to let me use their money at Treasury+ 58 or you know something under 3% for 10 years or something around 3% for 30 years. And I can generate a return on capital employed last year at north of 16%, that's probably a smart thing to do. So that's how we use the balance sheet is really in times like this. And if we don't need to use it, we don't. We preserve that balance sheet strength for something else. But it's when you're going through these kinds of transitional periods is when you -- that's when the strength of your balance sheet really serves.
It serves you well in terms of maintaining your strategies and your plans and your tactics. And it serves your shareholder well and not jerking them around on what they are getting back. And that's really kind of how I view it, so that's how we use it. And even with the placements we’ve taken last year and this year we still have a lot of capacity there. And as we’ve always said, it's maintain the flexibility, so there is something really interesting is in front of you, you don't have to pass because you didn't have the financial capacity to do it.
Ryan Todd
Thanks. Ryan Todd at Deutsche Bank. A question for you, you mentioned earlier on how you felt like the US unconventional resource has the potential to be more resilient than people expected and potentially surprise to the upside. Can you talk a little bit about where you see it on the global cost curve at this point? It seems they have declined rapidly along that curve over the past 12 months. It’s still accelerating and where does that stack up on that global curve? And does the unique flexibility of the asset type change the way that you do your business at all?
Rex Tillerson
Again you're talking about North America?
Ryan Todd
Yeah, North America shale resources?
Rex Tillerson
Yeah, well you know the characteristics of it is, one of the reasons it was interesting for us to enter that resource type is first, we didn't have any of it and it's big. And our judgment was, it was going to be very significant and there was value there, so that's why we entered it a few years back. And one of the characteristics is as you described and as Jack talked about, you can -- the nature of it is you can very quickly adjust to the environment around you, with the only risk being your loss of the leases. You know so the only reason you’ve -- the only reason you are compelled because you never have to do anything, you can walk away.
But the only reason you are compelled to perhaps do something that might be marginal from an economic sense is in order to preserve the longer-term resource holding in the lease. Because otherwise you’ve enormous flexibility with this thing, and that's what all of the people who participate in it are doing as well. Now the others that are in the resource development are these North American shales. They all have different business models, all different strategies, not very many of them are like ours, you know and that's okay.
And so, they have built their activities with a different deliverable objective in mind. And so the nature of that is that when it corrects, it corrects very dramatically. And I think that's what’s evident. I think what's, again when I was talking earlier about the resilience of this, I really do kind of look at the lessons learned from the shale gas. Because these are a lot of the same people, a lot of the same players. And that people showed an enormous resilience through that and that's why I think you're going to see some surprising resilience on the tight oil side as well.
And it will and therefore it will compete globally, you know kind of back to the essence of your question is, because maybe what you are trying to ask us, is it the high cost supply in the global supply curve and in my view, that is, no it's not. Now it is a broad range, there is a cost of supply curve of the shales and they are not all the same either, but certainly there is a significant portion of this that is competitive on a global basis.
Ryan Todd
And maybe as a follow-up to that, given the cost structure of the rest of 