Popular Incorporated (NASDAQ:BPOP)
Q4 2015 Earnings Conference Call
January 26, 2016 10:00 AM ET
Executives
Brett Scheiner - IR Officer
Richard Carrion - Chairman and CEO
Carlos Vazquez - EVP and CFO
Lidio Soriano - EVP and CRO
Analysts
Gerard Cassidy - RBC Capital Markets
Ken Zerbe - Morgan Stanley
Brian Klock - Keefe, Bruyette & Woods
Alex Twerdahl - Sandler ONeill
Brett Rabatin - Piper Jaffray
Leo Harmon - FMA
Michael Cohen - Opportunistic Research
Operator
Good morning, and welcome to the Popular Inc. Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings conference call. All participants will be in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After todays presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to the Investor Relations Officer of Popular Inc. Brett Scheiner. Please go ahead.
Brett Scheiner
Good morning and thank you for joining us on todays call. Today I am joined by our Chairman and CEO, Richard Carrion; our CFO, Carlos Vazquez, and our CRO, Lidio Soriano, who will review our full year and fourth quarter results and then answer your questions. They will be joined in the Q&A session by other members of our management team.
Before we start, I would like to remind you that on todays call, we may make forward-looking statements that are based on managements current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within todays earnings press release and are detailed in our SEC filings, our financial quarterly release and supplements. You may find todays press release and our SEC filings on our Web page at popular.com.
I will now turn the call over to Mr. Richard Carrion.
Richard Carrion
Good morning and thank you for joining the call. I'd like to first address the highlights and key events of 2015 and the fourth quarter. Then I would present an update on our business and our thoughts regarding the fiscal and economic situation in Puerto Rico. Carlos will comment on the quarter's financial results and Lidio will provide an update of credit trends and metrics.
Please turn to Slide Number 2. This year we reached a number of key milestones in improving the performance of our Bank. In February, we announced the purchase of $2 billion of assets and the assumption of a similar amount of deposits as part of the Doral Bank transaction with subsequent acquisitions of their insurance and mortgage servicing portfolios. In addition during the year, we completed the restructuring of our U.S. operations and in September we reinstated a quarterly dividend.
These accomplishments come in concert with improved financial results for the Company. For the full year 2015, we reported net income of 895 million which includes the effects of the partial recapture of our U.S. deferred tax assets. Adjusted net income from continuing operations was 375 million improving on the prior year's 305 million. Our credit quality improved as total NPAs including covered loans of 843 million were down from 933 million at year-end 2014. Non-covered NPLs decreased 29 million to 602 million. NPLs were 2.7% of non-covered loans compared to 3.3% last year. Our stable credit metrics were the result of aggressive loss mitigation efforts, resolutions, restructurings and NPL sale. Our tier 1 capital and tier 1 common ratios at year-end were both 16.2%.
Turning to Slide 3, as you can see we continue to improve our leading market position in Puerto Rico. Banco Popular franchise is unique and has consistently grown its retail and commercial clients. We currently serve 1.6 million customers representing approximately 65% of Puerto Rico's bank population. Given this privileged competitive position, we continue to focus on strengthening the relationship and satisfaction of our clients, while providing innovative solutions, as part of our digital transformation efforts. Approximately 600,000 of our clients are active online and 67% of these use mobile devices. In December close to 30% of our deposit transactions in Puerto Rico were processed through ATMs and mobile devices, a figure that has been increasing consistently. Our business profile positions us well for an eventual economic recovery [in the island] [ph] and continues to provide meaningful earnings power in the interim.
