Popular, Inc. (NASDAQ:BPOP)
Q4 2014 Earnings Conference Call
January 22, 2015, 10:00 AM ET
Executives
Brett Scheiner - Investor Relations Officer
Richard Carrin - Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Carlos Vzquez - Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and President, Popular Community Bank
Lidio Soriano - Executive Vice President and Corporate Risk Management
Analysts
Gerard Cassidy - RBC
Brett Rabatin - Sterne, Agee
Taylor Brodarick - Guggenheim Securities
Brian Klock - Keefe, Bruyette & Woods
Alex Twerdahl - Sandler O'Neill
Operator
Good day, and welcome to the Popular, Inc. Q4 2014 earnings conference call and webcast. [Operator Instructions] And now, I will turn the call over to the Investor Relations Officer at Popular, Inc., Brett Scheiner. Please go ahead.
Brett Scheiner
Good morning and thank you for joining us on today's call. Today, I am joined by our Chairman and CEO, Richard Carrin; our CFO, Carlos Vzquez; and our CRO, Lidio Soriano, who will review our full year and fourth quarter results, and then answer your questions. They will be joined in the Q&A session by other members of our management team.
Before we start, I would like to remind you that on today's call, we may make forward-looking statements that are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release and are detailed in our SEC filings, our financial quarterly release and supplements. You may find today's press release and our SEC filings on our webpage at popular.com.
I will now turn the call over to Mr. Richard Carrin.
Richard Carrin
Good morning and thank you all for joining the call. I'd like to first address the highlights and key events of 2014, then I'll discuss the fourth quarter, give an update of our U.S. reorganization and provide our thoughts regarding the fiscal and economic situation in Puerto Rico. Carlos will then comment on the quarter's financial results, and Lidio will provide an update of credit trends and metrics.
Before we start, I'd like acknowledge our Vice Chairman, Jorge Junquera's 43 years of service at Popular, for he will be leaving us at the end of February, as we recently announced. And serving as CFO of the bank for both prosperous and difficult times, we are forever indebted to his passion, to his dedication, and thankful for his many contributions to Popular.
Please turn to the Slide 2. This year we reached a number of key milestones in improving the performance of our bank. In July, we repaid our outstanding TARP funds without raising additional equity. In August and September, we completed the sales of our Illinois and Central Florida regions, and in November we completed the sale of our California region.
In addition, we have seen our credit MOU listed, refinanced a meaningful amount of high cost funding and sold the majority of our U.S. legacy and classified assets. These accomplishments come in concert with improved financial results for the company.
For the full year 2014, we reported a net loss of $309 million, which includes the effects of the repayment of TARP and our U.S. restructuring. Adjusted net income from continuing operations was a positive $305 million, improving on the prior year's $256 million. Our credit quality was stable, as total NPAs including covered loans of $928 million were down slightly from $932 million at yearend 2013.
Non-covered NPLs increased slightly to $625 million from $598 million. NPLs to non-covered loans was 3.2% compared to 2.8%, and that ratio increase is mainly due to lower loan balances, as a result of our U.S. reorganization. Our stable credit metrics were the result of aggressive loss litigation efforts, resolutions, restructurings and NPL sales. Our Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common ratios at yearend are 18.2% and 15.9%, respectively.
