Popular (NASDAQ:BPOP)
Q4 2013 Earnings Call
January 23, 2014 10:00 am ET
Executives
Brett Scheiner - Investor Relations Officer
Richard L. Carrion - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President, Member of Funding Committee, Member of Pricing Committee, Chairman of Banco Popular De Puerto Rico and Chief Executive Officer of Banco Popular De Puerto Rico
Carlos J. Vazquez - Chief Financial Officer, Senior Executive Vice President and President of Banco Popular North America
Lidio V. Soriano - Chief Risk Officer and Executive Vice President of Corporate Risk Management Group
Jorge J. Garcia - Principal Accounting Officer, Corporate Comptroller, Senior Vice President of Banco Popular North America and Director of Finance & Accounting - Banco Popular North America
Analysts
Alexander Twerdahl - Sandler O'Neill + Partners, L.P., Research Division
Brian Klock - Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division
Todd L. Hagerman - Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., Research Division
Ken A. Zerbe - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Gerard S. Cassidy - RBC Capital Markets, LLC, Research Division
Taylor Brodarick - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division
Operator
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Call for Popular, Inc. And now I will turn the call over to the Investor Relations Officer, Mr. Brett Scheiner.
Brett Scheiner
Thank you. Good morning, and thank you for joining us on today's call. Today, I am joined by our Chairman and CEO, Richard Carrion; our CFO, Carlos Vazquez; and our CRO, Lidio Soriano, who will review our full year and fourth quarter results and then answer your questions. They will be joined in the Q&A session by other members of our management team.
Before we start, I would like to remind you that on today's call, we may make forward-looking statements that are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release and are detailed in our SEC filings, our financial quarterly release and supplements. You may find today's press release and our SEC filings on our web page, which you may visit by going to www.popular.com.
I will now turn the call over to Mr. Richard Carrion.
Richard L. Carrion
Good morning, and thank you all for joining the call. I'd like to first address the highlights and key events of 2013, then I will discuss the fourth quarter, share our progress and focus areas and provide some updates regarding the economic situation in Puerto Rico. Carlos will then go into greater detail on the quarter's financial results, and Lidio will provide an update of credit trends and metrics. So with that, please turn to the second slide.
In 2013, Popular produced $1.9 billion in gross adjusted revenues, in line with the prior year. For the year, we earned net income of $599 million and adjusted net income of $256 million, both improving on the prior year's results. We made clear and consistent progress on a key objective, improving credit quality. Total NPAs including covered loans of $922 million were down from $2 billion at year-end 2012. Non-covered NPLs declined $827 million to $598 million or 2.8% of non-covered loans, the lowest level since 2007. These reductions were the result of aggressive loss mitigation efforts, resolutions, restructurings and NPL sales.
Early in the year, our former processing subsidiary, EVERTEC, completed its IPO. This transaction, in addition to 2 subsequent share sales, generated after-tax gain sales to Popular of $424 million. Our adjusted net income, in addition to the EVERTEC gains, drove tangible book value to $37.56, up from $32.55 last year.
Our Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common ratios are 19.4% and 15%, up 206 and 185 basis points, respectively, year-over-year.
