Popular, Inc. (NASDAQ:BPOP)
Q4 2016 Earnings Conference Call
January 24, 2017, 11:00 AM ET
Executives
Brett Scheiner  Investor Relations Officer
Richard Carrion  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Carlos Vazquez  Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Lidio Soriano  Executive Vice President & Chief Risk Officer
Analysts
Brett Rabatin  Piper Jaffray
Alex Twerdahl  Sandler O'Neill
Dimitre Genov  Magnetar
Gerard Cassidy  RBC Capital Markets
Unidentified Analyst  Compass Point
Ken Zerbe  Morgan Stanley
Brian Klock  KBW
Joe Gladue  Merion Capital
Alexander Karlan  Lake Trail Capital
Operator
Good morning. And welcome to the Popular Fourth Quarter 2016 Earnings Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] Please note, that this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Investor Relations Officer, Brett Scheiner. Please go ahead.
Brett Scheiner
Good morning. And thank you for joining us on today's call. Today I am joined by our Chairman and CEO, Richard Carrion; our CFO, Carlos Vazquez; and our CRO, Lidio Soriano, who will review our full year and fourth quarter results and then answer your questions. They will be joined in the Q&A session by other members of our management team.
Before we start, I would like to remind you that on today's call, we may make forward-looking statements that are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release and are detailed in our SEC filings, our financial quarterly release and supplements. You may find today's press release and our SEC filings on our webpage at popular.com.
I will now turn the call over to Mr. Richard Carrion.
Richard Carrion
Good morning and thank you for joining the call. I'd like to address the highlights and key events of 2016 and the fourth quarter. Then I will present an update on our business and our thoughts regarding the fiscal and economic situation in Puerto Rico. Carlos will comment on the quarter's financial results and Lidio will provide and update of credit trends and metrics.
Please turn to Slide number 2. This year included a number of key events in improving the performance and risk profile of our bank. We grew loans in our U.S. business by 17% completed a large bulk sale of NPAs related to our Westernbank transaction and sold our exposure to PREPA at a gain. These accomplishments come in concert with favorable financial results for the Company.
For the full year 2016, we reported net income of $217 million which includes the effect of two adverse FDIC arbitration awards. Adjusted net income from continuing operations was $358 million, down from the prior year's $375 million, as our U.S. business did not benefit from the low-income tax rate and credit recoveries experienced in 2015.
Our credit quality improved as total NPAs including covered loans of $774 million were down from $843 million at year end 2015. Non-covered NPLs decreased $44 million to $558 million. NPLs were 2.5% of non-covered loans compared to 2.7% last year. Our stable credit metrics as a result of aggressive loss mitigation efforts, resolutions, restructuring, NPL sales and an improved risk profile. Our Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common ratios at year end were 16.5%.
Turning to Slide 3, as you can see, we continued to improve our leading market position in Puerto Rico. Our Puerto Rico franchise is unique and has consistently grown its retail and commercial client. We currently serve close to 1.7 million customers, generating annual total transaction growth of 5%.
Given our competitive positions, we continue to focus on strengthening the relationship and satisfaction of our clients while providing innovative solutions, as part of our digital transformation efforts. Approximately 700,000 of our clients are active online and 74% of these use mobile devices. 
