Popular, Inc. (NASDAQ:BPOP)
Q1 2015 Earnings Conference Call 
April 27, 2015 10:00 AM ET
Executives
Brett Scheiner - Investor Relations Officer
Richard Carrin - Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Carlos Vzquez - EVP and Chief Financial Officer and President, Popular Community Bank
Lidio Soriano - Executive Vice President and Corporate Risk Management
Analysts
Alex Twerdahl - Sandler O'Neill & Partners
Ken Zerbe - Morgan Stanley
Jordan Hymowitz - Philadelphia Financial
Adam Hurwich - Ulysses Management
Taylor Brodarick - Guggenheim Securities
Operator
Good morning. And welcome to the Popular, Inc. First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded. I'd now like to turn the conference over to the Investor Relations Officer at Popular, Inc., Brett Scheiner. 
Brett Scheiner
Good morning. And thank you for joining us on today's call. Today, I am joined by our Chairman and CEO, Richard Carrin; our CFO, Carlos Vzquez; and our CRO, Lidio Soriano, who will review our first quarter results and then answer your questions. They will be joined in the Q&A session by other members of our management team.
Before we start, I would like to remind you that on today's call, we may make forward-looking statements that are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release and are detailed in our SEC filings, our financial quarterly release and supplements. You may find today's press release and our SEC filings on our webpage at www.popular.com.
I will now turn the call over to Mr. Richard Carrin.
Richard Carrin
Good morning. And thank you all for joining the call. I'd like to first address the highlights and key events of the first quarter. Then I'll present an update on the assets and deposits we acquired in the Doral Bank transaction and provide our thoughts regarding the fiscal and economic situation in Puerto Rico. Carlos will comment on the quarter's financial result and Lidio will provide an update of credit trends and metrics. 
With that please turn to the second slide. In the first quarter Popular earned adjusted net income of $90 million, up $13 million from last quarter and up $4 million from last year's first quarter. We continue to generate strong revenues with capital levels well above peer averages. Tangible book value was $36.33, up from $35.89 last quarter. Our net interest margin up 4.57% decreased from last year's adjusted 4.70%, a lower spread income from covered portfolio. Our spreads remain strong relative to peers with our Puerto Rico net interest margin at 5%.
Total NPA this quarter up $935 million, including covered loans, were essentially flat from last quarter's $933 million. NPL inflows decreased $65 million when compared to the previous quarter, driven by last quarter's $75 million public sector borrower that entered nonaccrual status.
Non-covered NPLs were $665 million or 3.2% of non-covered loans, up $35 million from last quarter with the majority of the increased related to the Doral failure and subsequent acquisition. Lidio will give you some more color on this.
Our net-charge offs were $36 million, or 72 basis points down from last quarter's $50 million, our 104 basis points, a lower commercial charge-offs in Puerto Rico. During the second half of 2014, we completed the sales of our California, Illinois and Central Florida operations and made progress on our previously announced plans to consolidate our Roseland, Illinois and Orlando, Florida operation center, transferring most of the support functions to Puerto Rico and New York. These efforts are on track to be concluded in the second quarter. These actions have simplified our operations, providing an opportunity for capital release and improving the return on capital of our U.S. region. 
