Popular, Inc. (NASDAQ:BPOP)
Q1 2016 Results Earnings Conference Call
April 25, 2016, 11:00 AM ET
Executives
Brett Scheiner - IR Officer
Richard Carrion - Chairman and CEO
Carlos Vazquez - EVP & CFO
Lidio Soriano - EVP & Chief Risk Officer
Juan Pablo - SVP & Treasurer
Analysts
Brian Klock - Keefe, Bruyette & Woods
Brett Rabatin - Piper Jaffray & Co.
Jesus Bueno - Compass Point
Gerard Cassidy - RBC Capital Markets
Ken Zerbe - Morgan Stanley
Alex Twerdahl - Sandler ONeill
Joe Gladue - Merion Capital Group
Brian Horey - Aurelian Management LLC
Operator
Good morning, and welcome to the Popular Inc. First Quarter 2016 Earnings conference call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After todays presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to the Investor Relations Officer at Popular Inc. Brett Scheiner. Please go ahead.
Brett Scheiner
Good morning and thank you for joining us on todays call. Today I am joined by our Chairman and CEO, Richard Carrion; our CFO, Carlos Vazquez; and our CRO, Lidio Soriano, who will review our first quarter results and then answer your questions. They will be joined in the Q&A session by other members of our Management Team.
Before we start, I would like to remind you that on todays call, we may make forward-looking statements that are based on Managements current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within todays earnings press release and are detailed in our SEC filings, our financial quarterly release and supplements. You may find todays press release and our SEC filings on our webpage at popular.com.
I will now turn the call over to Mr. Richard Carrion.
Richard Carrion
Good morning and thank you for joining the call. I'd like to first address the highlights and key events of the first quarter. Then I'll present an update on our business and our thoughts regarding the fiscal and economic situation in Puerto Rico. Carlos will comment on the quarter's financial results and Lidio will provide an update of credit trends and metrics.
So please turn to Slide Number 2. In the first quarter, Popular earned net income of $85 million, down $13 million from last quarters adjusted results. We continue to generate strong revenues with capital levels well above peer averages.
Tangible book value was $43.55, up from $42.18 last quarter. Our net interest margin of 4.43% increased from last quarters 4.39%. Our spreads remain strong relative to peers with our Puerto Rico net interest margin of 4.87%.
Were also encouraged by the trends in our U.S. business, particularly the strong commercial loan production. Total NPAs this quarter of $848 million including covered loans were up $5 million from last quarters $843 million mostly due to an increase in OREO balances.
Non-covered NPLs were $600 million or 2.7% of non-covered loans down $2 million from last quarter. NPL inflows increased $9 million when compared to the previous quarter, driven by a single commercial borrower in the U.S. Our net charge-offs were $42 million or 76 basis points, down from last quarters $83 million or 148 basis points.
At quarter end, available holding company liquidity stood at approximately $402 million. This liquidity position provides an excess of two years debt service coverage with no maturities until 2019.
In addition the market value of our stake in Evertec is approximately $163 million and significantly exceeds our position's current book value of $35 million. As investors, we will continue to participate in a proportionate share of the Companys income, while our investment also represents an additional source of capital flexibility and potential holding company liquidity.
