Popular, Inc. (NASDAQ:BPOP)
Q1 2014 Earnings Conference Call
April 23, 2014 11:00 AM ET

Executives

Brett Scheiner  Investor Relations Officer
Richard L. Carrin  President, Chairman, and Chief Executive Officer
Carlos J. Vzquez  Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and President-Popular Community Bank
Analysts
Brian Klock  Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc.
Kenneth Zerbe  Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Gerard S. Cassidy  RBC Capital Markets LLC
Taylor Warren Brodarick  Guggenheim Securities LLC


Operator

Good morning and welcome to the Popular, Inc. First Quarter 2014 Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. (Operator Instructions) Please note this event is being recorded. And now, I will turn the call over to the Investor Relations Officer at Popular, Inc., Brett Scheiner.
Brett Scheiner
Good morning and thank you for joining us on todays call. Today, Im joined by our Chairman and CEO, Richard Carrin; our CFO, Carlos Vzquez and our CRO, Lidio Soriano who will review our first quarter results and then answer your questions. They will be joined in the Q&A session by other members of our management team.
Before we start, I would like to remind you that on todays call, we may make forward-looking statements that are based on managements current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within todays earnings press release and are detailed in our SEC filings, our financial quarterly release and supplements. You may find todays press release and our SEC filings on our webpage at popular.com.
I will now turn the call over to Mr. Richard Carrin.
Richard L. Carrin
Thank you. Good morning and thank you all for joining the call. Id like to first address the highlights and key events of the first quarter, discuss the details of our U.S. reorganization plan announced this morning and provide some updates regarding the economic situation in Puerto Rico. Carlos will then go into greater detail on the quarters financial results and Lidio will provide an update of credit trends and metrics.
So please turn to the second slide. In the first quarter, Popular earned net income of $86 million, well ahead of adjusted results for last quarter and last years first quarter. We continue to generate strong revenues with capital levels above peer averages. Our net income drove tangible book value per share to $38.71, up from $37.56 last quarter.
Our margin of 4.70% declined slightly from last quarters 4.74% as continued improvements in funding costs; partially offset last quarters additional income from resolutions in the covered loan portfolio. Our spreads remain strong relative to peers with our Puerto Rico net interest margin close to 5.5%.
Total NPAs this quarter of $956 million including covered loans were up slightly from $932 million last quarter. Non-covered NPLs were $635 million or 2.9% of non-covered loans, up from $598 million or 2.8% last quarter. While aggressive loss mitigation efforts, resolutions, restructurings and NPL sales continue, one credit relationship of approximately $52 million was put on non-accrual status in the quarter, impacting our credit metrics.
Excluding this one relationship, NPAs and NPLs were stable. NPL inflows increased $64 million when compared to the previous quarter, mainly due to the result of the aforementioned Puerto Rico commercial credit relationship. Puerto Rico mortgage inflows of $89 million were down $5 million from last quarters $94 million. Our net charge-offs were $43 million or 80 basis points, up from last quarters $35 million or 66 basis points from stable growth charge-offs, but slightly lower recoveries.
