Popular (NASDAQ:BPOP)
Q1 2013 Earnings Call
April 18, 2013  2:00 pm ET
Executives
Enrique Martel
Richard L. Carrion - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President, Member of Funding Committee, Member of Pricing Committee, Chairman of Banco Popular De Puerto Rico and Chief Executive Officer of Banco Popular De Puerto Rico
Carlos J. Vazquez - Chief Financial Officer, Senior Executive Vice President and President of Banco Popular North America
Lidio V. Soriano - Chief Risk Officer and Executive Vice President of Corporate Risk Management Group
Analysts
Ken A. Zerbe - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Alexander Twerdahl - Sandler O'Neill + Partners, L.P., Research Division
Robert Greene - Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., Research Division
Gerard S. Cassidy - RBC Capital Markets, LLC, Research Division
Brian Klock - Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division
Todd L. Hagerman - Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., Research Division
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the First Quarterly Popular Earnings Conference Call. My name is Phil, and I will be your operator for today. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this call is being recorded for replay purposes. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today, Mr. Enrique Martel, Corporate Communications. Please proceed, sir.
Enrique Martel
Good morning. Thank you for joining us on today's call. Our Chairman and CEO, Richard Carrion; our CFO, Carlos Vazquez; and our CRO, Lidio Soriano, will review our first quarter results, and then answer your questions. We'll be joined in the Q&A session by other members of our management team.
Before we start, I would like to remind you that on today's call, we may make forward-looking statements that are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release and are detailed in our SEC filings, financial quarterly release and supplements.
You may find today's press release and our SEC filings on our web page, you may visit by going to www.popular.com.
I will now turn the call over to Richard Carrion.
Richard L. Carrion
Good afternoon, and thank you, all, for joining the call. I'd like to first address the highlights and key events of the quarter and then discuss our progress and priority areas, Carlos will then go into greater detail on the quarter's financial results, and Lidio will provide an overview of credit trends and metrics.
So please turn to the second slide. Popular reported $60 million in net income for the first quarter excluding the impact of the NPA sale. The quarter was a solid start to the year as we continue to take actions to capture the full earnings potential of our unique franchise. Our revenue-generating capacity remained strong with overall net interest margin at 4.39% for the quarter, and Banco Popular Puerto Rico margin remaining at just over 5%.
On the credit front, our intensive efforts are bearing fruit and we continue to make significant progress on key metrics. We'll provide more details in a few minutes, but suffice it to say that we have made dramatic improvements over the past few years, and we continue to do so.
When discussing normalized earnings with you, we have indicated that we expected reductions in credit costs to be the largest contributor to closing the gap between current and estimated normalized earnings. About 1 month ago, we took a huge step in that direction with the completion of the sale of a large block of NPAs that were dragging our earnings. That sale included Puerto Rico commercial and construction NPLs with a book value of $401 million. While the NPA sale modestly reduced our excess capital, this will be largely replaced in the second quarter with the after-tax gain from the successful EVERTEC IPO, which was completed last week.
