Popular Inc. (NASDAQ:BPOP)
Q3 2015 Earnings Conference Call
October 23, 2015 10:00 am ET
Executives
Richard Carrion - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
Carlos Vazquez - Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
Lidio Soriano - Executive Vice President, Chief Risk Officer
Unidentified - 
Brett Scheiner - Investor Relations Officer
Analysts
Brian Klock - KBW
Alex Twerdahl - Sandler ONeill
Ken Zerbe - Morgan Stanley
Jordan Hymowitz - Philadelphia Financial
Taylor Brodarick - Guggenheim Securities
Operator
Good day and welcome to the Popular Inc. Q3 2015 Earnings conference call and webcast. All participants will be in a listen-only mode. Should you need assistance, please signal a conference specialist by pressing the star key followed by zero. After todays presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. To ask a question, you may press star then one on a touchtone phone. To withdraw your question, please press star then two. Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Brett Scheiner, Investor Relations Officer. Please go ahead, sir.
Brett Scheiner
Good morning and thank you for joining us on todays call. Today I am joined by our Chairman and CEO, Richard Carrion; our CFO, Carlos Vazquez, and our CRO, Lidio Soriano, who will review our third quarter results and then answer your questions. They will be joined in the Q&A session by other members of our management team.
Before we start, I would like to remind you that on todays call, we may make forward-looking statements that are based on managements current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within todays earnings press release and are detained in our SEC filings, our financial quarterly release and supplements. You may find todays press release and our SEC filings on our webpage at popular.com.
I will now turn the call over to Mr. Richard Carrion.
Richard Carrion
Good morning and thank you for joining the call. Id like to first address the highlights and key events of the third quarter, then I will present an update on our business and our thoughts regarding the fiscal and economic situation in Puerto Rico. Carlos will comment on the quarters financial results and Lidio will provide an update of credit trends and metrics.
With that, please turn to Slide No. 2. In the third quarter, Popular earned adjusted net income of $93 million, up $3 million from both last quarter and last years third quarter. We continue to generate strong revenues with capital levels well above peer averages. Tangible book value was $42.71, up from $41.73 last quarter. Our net interest margin of 4.39% decreased 15 basis points from last years 4.54% on lower income from our runoff Westernbank portfolio. Our spreads remain strong relative to peers with our Puerto Rico net interest margin of 4.75%.
Total NPAs this quarter of $878 million, including covered loans, were up $72 million from last years $806 million mostly due to a single large commercial relationship that has continued to meet its debt service. Non-covered NPLs were $635 million or 2.8% of non-covered loans, up $59 million from last quarter. NPL inflows increased $82 million when compared to the previous quarter driven by three large commercial relationships, including the one I just mentioned. Our net charge-offs were $46 million or 83 basis points, essentially flat from last quarters $46 million or 89 basis points.
At quarter end, available holding company liquidity stood at approximately $221 million. This liquidity position provides an excess of two years debt service coverage with no maturities until 2019. In addition, the market value of our stake in Evertec is approximately $211 million and significantly exceeds our positions current book value of $31 million. As investors, we will continue to participate in a proportionate share of the companys income, while our investment also represents an additional source of capital flexibility and potential holding company liquidity.
