Popular Inc (NASDAQ:BPOP)
Q2 2013 Earnings Call
July 18, 2013 2:00 pm ET
Executives
Brett Scheiner - Investor Relations Officer
Richard L. Carrion - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President, Member of Funding Committee, Member of Pricing Committee, Chairman of Banco Popular De Puerto Rico and Chief Executive Officer of Banco Popular De Puerto Rico
Carlos J. Vazquez - Chief Financial Officer, Senior Executive Vice President and President of Banco Popular North America
Lidio V. Soriano - Chief Risk Officer and Executive Vice President of Corporate Risk Management Group
Analysts
Ken A. Zerbe - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Alexander Twerdahl - Sandler O'Neill + Partners, L.P., Research Division
Todd L. Hagerman - Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., Research Division
Taylor Brodarick - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Second Quarter 2013 Popular Earnings Conference Call. My name is Philip, and I'll be your operator for today. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today, Mr. Brett Scheiner, Head of Investor Relations. Please proceed, sir.
Brett Scheiner
Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us on today's call. I'm honored to be here and eager to get started. Today, I'm joined by our Chairman and CEO, Richard Carrion; our CFO, Carlos Vazquez; and our CRO, Lidio Soriano, who will review our second quarter results, and then answer your questions. They will be joined in the Q&A session by other members of our management team.
Before we start, I would like to remind you that on today's call, we may make forward-looking statements that are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause the actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release and are detailed in our SEC filings, our financial quarterly release and supplements. You may find today's press release and our SEC filings on our web page, which you may visit by going to www.popular.com.
I will now turn the call over to Mr. Richard Carrion.
Richard L. Carrion
Good afternoon, and thank you, all, for joining the call. I'd like to first address the highlights and key events of the quarter, and then discuss our progress in priority areas. Carlos will then go into greater detail on the quarter's financial results, and Lidio will provide an overview of credit trends and metrics. So please turn to the second slide.
Popular reported $328 million in net income for the second quarter. To say there's a little noise in these numbers would be the understatement of the century. There are 3 large pieces affecting our results, 2 of which we previously announced, and we will discuss them in greater detail. These are the EVERTEC IPO and the sale of residential NPLs. So to this, we add the impact of changes in the Puerto Rico tax code, and we'd come up with an adjusted net income figure of $68 million in a quarter that reflects our 2 greatest sources of strength: revenue-generating capacity and capital levels.
Our margin of 4.46% remains strong relative to peers, while our robust capital position allowed us to aggressively address the level of non-performing loans, which we have reduced by 42% in the second quarter. After completing 2 bulk sales in the first 2 quarters, we have now reduced NPLs by more than $800 million in the first half of 2013. The sale of mortgage NPLs this quarter marked the end of major loan portfolio de-risking transactions. However, we'll continue our workout efforts through individual resolution of problem credits, and continue to actively manage our portfolios within enhanced risk management structures.
