Banco Popular Espanol SA (NASDAQ:BPOP)
Q2 2016 Earnings Conference Call
July 26, 2016 11:00 AM ET
Executives
Brett Scheiner - IR
Richard Carrion - CEO
Carlos Vazquez - CFO
Lidio Soriano - CRO
Analysts
Alex Twerdahl - Sandler ONeill
Ken Zerbe - Morgan Stanley
Brett Rabatin - Piper Jaffray
Gerard Cassidy - RBC
Jesus Bueno - Compass Point
Brian Klock - Keefe, Bruyette & Woods
Brian Horey - Aurelian Management
Operator
Good morning, and welcome to the Popular Inc. Quarter Two 2016 Earnings Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After todays presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please also note that this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to the Investor Relations Officer, Brett Scheiner. Please go ahead.
Brett Scheiner
Good morning, and thank you for joining us on todays call. Today I am joined by our Chairman and CEO, Richard Carrion; our CFO, Carlos Vazquez; and our CRO, Lidio Soriano, who will review our second quarter results and then answer your questions. They will be joined in the Q&A session by other members of our Management Team.
Before we start, I would like to remind you that on todays call, we may make forward-looking statements that are based on Managements current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within todays earnings press release and are detailed in our SEC filings, our financial quarterly release and supplements. You may find todays press release and our SEC filings on our webpage at popular.com.
I will now turn the call over to Mr. Richard Carrion.
Richard Carrion
Good morning and thank you for joining the call. I'd like to first address the highlights and key events of the second quarter. Then I'll present an update on our business and our thoughts regarding the fiscal and economic situation in Puerto Rico. Carlos will comment on the quarter's financial results; and Lidio will provide an update of credit trends and metrics.
With that please turn to Slide #2. In the second quarter Popular reported adjusted net income of $91 million, up $6 million from last quarter's results. We continue to generate strong revenues with capital levels well above peer averages. Tangible book value was $44.62, up from $43.55 last quarter. Our net interest income was up $6 million over the prior quarter. Our net interest margin of 4.31% was down from last quarter's 4.43% as a result of higher cash and short term investment balances due to an increase in public sector deposits. Our spreads remain strong relative to peers with our Puerto Rico net interest margin of 4.67%.
Were also encouraged by the trends in our U.S. business, particularly the continued strong commercial loan production. Total NPAs this quarter of $836 million including covered loans were down $12 million from last quarters $848 million, mostly due to lower NPLs, somewhat offset by an increase in OREO balances.
Non-covered NPLs were $578 million or 2.6% of non-covered loans, down $0.2 million from last quarter. NPL inflows decreased $9 million when compared to the previous quarter, driven mostly by last quarter's inflow of a single commercial borrower in the U.S. Our net charge-offs were $35 million or 63 basis points, down $7 million from last quarters $42 million or 76 basis points, excluding a $5 million recovery on the bulk sale we completed this quarter, which Lidia will address later. At quarter end, available holding company liquidity stood at approximately $420 million. This liquidity position provides in excess of two years debt service coverage with no maturities until 2019.
