Popular, Inc. (NASDAQ:BPOP)
Q2 2015 Earnings Conference Call
July 24, 2015 10:00 ET
Executives
Brett Scheiner - Investor Relations
Richard Carrion - Chairman & CEO
Carlos Vzquez - EVP & CFO
Lidio Soriano - EVP & Corporate Risk Management
Analysts
Alex Twerdahl - Sandler O'Neill
Ken Zerbe - Morgan Stanley
Taylor Brodarick - Guggenheim Securities
Operator
Welcome to the Popular, Inc. Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. I would now like to turn the conference over to Brett Scheiner, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.
Brett Scheiner
Good morning. Thank you for joining us on today's call. Today, I am joined by our Chairman and CEO, Richard Carrion and our CRO, Lidio Soriano, who will review our second quarter results and then answer your questions. They will be joined in the Q&A session by other members of our management team.
Before we start, I would like to remind you that on today's call, we may make forward-looking statements that are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release and are detailed in our SEC filings, our financial quarterly release and supplements. You may find today's press release and our SEC filings on our webpage at www.popular.com.
I will now turn the call over to Mr. Richard Carrion.
Richard Carrion
Good morning and thank you all for joining the call. I would like to first address the highlight and key events of the second quarter that will present an update on the assets deposits that we acquired in the Doral transaction and provide our thoughts regarding the fiscal and economic situation for Puerto Rico. Carlos will comment on the quarter's financial results and Lidio will provide an update on our credit trends and metrics.
Please turn to the second slide, in the second quarter Popular earned adjusted net income of 90 million, flat to last quarter and up 4 million from last year's second quarter. We continue to generate strong revenues with capital levels well above peer average. Tangible book value was $41.75 up from $36.33 last quarter due mostly this quarter's partial reversal of the allowance against our U.S. deferred tax asset reflecting the improved profitability and outlook of our U.S. operations.
Our net interest margin were 4.67% decreased slightly from last quarter's 12.67% as a full quarter's contribution from our acquired Doral assets was partially offset by higher levels of liquidity. We must note however that net interest income increased $19 million sequentially. Our spreads remain strong relative to peers where our Puerto Rico net interest margin of 4.92%.
Total NPLs this quarter of 806 million including covered loans were down a 129 million from last quarter's 935 million. NPL inflows decreased 31 million when compared to the previous quarter driven by lower mortgage and commercial inflows in Puerto Rico. Non-covered NPLs were 576 million or 2.6% of non-covered loans down 89 million from last quarter.
Our net charge off excluding write-downs were 46 million or 89 basis points up slightly from last quarter's 36 million or 72 basis points on higher commercial charge off and below trend results last quarter.
This quarter we completed the majority of our previously announced plans to compose our Illinois and Central Florida operation centers transferring most of these support functions to Puerto Rico and New York. These actions have simplified our operations providing an opportunity for capital levy [ph] and improving the return on capital of our U.S. region.
At quarter-end available holding company liquidity could have approximately 234 million. Our liquidity position provides in excess of [indiscernible] investor coverage with no maturity on 2019.
