Popular (NASDAQ:BPOP)
Q3 2013 Earnings Call
October 23, 2013 10:00 am ET
Executives
Brett Scheiner - Investor Relations Officer
Richard L. Carrion - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President, Member of Funding Committee, Member of Pricing Committee, Chairman of Banco Popular De Puerto Rico and Chief Executive Officer of Banco Popular De Puerto Rico
Carlos J. Vazquez - Chief Financial Officer, Senior Executive Vice President and President of Banco Popular North America
Lidio V. Soriano - Chief Risk Officer and Executive Vice President of Corporate Risk Management Group
Analysts
Gerard S. Cassidy - RBC Capital Markets, LLC, Research Division
Ken A. Zerbe - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Alexander Twerdahl - Sandler O'Neill + Partners, L.P., Research Division
Herman Chan - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division
Todd L. Hagerman - Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., Research Division
Taylor Brodarick - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Third Quarter 2013 Popular, Inc. Earnings Conference Call. My name is Derek, and I'll be your operator for today. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Brett Scheiner, Head of Investor Relations. Please proceed.
Brett Scheiner
Good morning, and thank you for joining us on today's call. Today, I am joined by our Chairman and CEO, Richard Carrion; our CFO, Carlos Vazquez; and our CRO, Lidio Soriano, who will review our third quarter results and then answer your questions. They will be joined in the Q&A session by other members of our management team.
Before we start, I would like to remind you that on today's call, we may make forward-looking statements that are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release and are detailed in our SEC filings, our financial quarterly release and supplements.
You may find today's press release and our SEC filings on our web page, which you may visit by going to www.popular.com.
I will now turn the call over to Mr. Richard Carrion.
Richard L. Carrion
Good morning, and thank you, all, for joining the call. I'd like to first address the highlights and key events of third quarter, discuss our progress and areas of focus and provide some updates regarding the economic situation in Puerto Rico. Carlos Vazquez will then go into greater detail on the quarter's financial results, and Lidio Soriano will provide an update of current trends and metrics.
So please turn to the second slide. Total reported net income for the third quarter was $229 million. Excluding the impact of the previously announced sale of additional EVERTEC shares, results in an adjusted net income figure for the quarter of $61.3 million. We continue to generate strong revenues, with capital levels above peer averages.
The Tier 1 common equity ratio at quarter end was 14.2%, which exceeds the CCAR 5% target requirement by $2.1 billion. Tangible book value ended the quarter at $35.32 per share, up from $33.38 last quarter.
On September 13, we sold 9 million additional shares of EVERTEC, bringing our stake down to 21.3%. The sale provided $197 million in cash and resulted in an after-tax gain of $168 million.
EVERTEC remains an important business partner and a valuable asset. The market value of our remaining stake is $406 million and significantly exceeds the position's current book value of $42 million. As investors, we will continue to participate in a proportionate share of the company's income. While we hope to maintain our current stake in the company, this investment represents a potential source of additional capital.
