Popular, Inc. (NASDAQ:BPOP)
Q3 2014 Earnings Conference Call
October 22, 2014, 10:30 AM ET
Executives
Brett Scheiner - Investor Relations Officer
Richard Carrin - Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Ignacio Alvarez - President, Chief Operating Officer and Director of the Corporation and Bank
Carlos Vzquez - Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and President, Popular Community Bank
Lidio Soriano - Executive Vice President and Corporate Risk Officer, Corporate Risk Management
Analysts
Brian Klock - Keefe Bruyette & Woods
Brett Rabatin - Sterne, Agee
Jordan Hymowitz - Philadelphia Financial
Gerard Cassidy - RBC
Ken Zerbe - Morgan Stanley
Daniel Hung - Knighthead Capital
Alex Twerdahl - Sandler O'Neill
Dan Oxman - Jacobs Asset Management
Operator
Good morning, and welcome to the Popular, Inc. third quarter 2014 financial results conference call. (Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to the Investor Relations Officer at Popular, Inc., Brett Scheiner. Please go ahead.
Brett Scheiner
Good morning, and thank you for joining us on today's call. Today, I am joined by our Chairman and CEO, Richard Carrin; our President and COO, Ignacio Alvarez, our CFO, Carlos Vzquez; and our CRO, Lidio Soriano, who will review our third quarter results and then answer your questions. They will be joined in the Q&A session by other members of our management team.
Before we start, I would like to remind you that on today's call, we may make forward-looking statements that are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release and are detailed in our SEC filings, our financial quarterly release and supplements. You may find today's press release and our SEC filings on our web page at popular.com.
I will now turn the call over to Mr. Richard Carrin.
Richard Carrin
Good morning, and thank you all for joining the call. I'd like to first address the highlights and key events of the third quarter, give an update of our U.S. reorganization plan and provide our thoughts regarding the fiscal and economic situation in Puerto Rico. Carlos will comment on the quarter's financial results, and Lidio will provide an update of credit trends and metrics.
Before we start, I'd like acknowledge our recently appointed President, Ignacio Alvarez. Ignacio joined the Popular's General Counsel in 2010, and has made important contributions to our strategic initiatives in these past few years. As President and COO, he will continue to provide strategic and operational guidance to our senior management team.
Ignacio passes the baton to Javier Ferrer, who we welcome as our General Counsel. Javier joins us with 30-years of experience as a corporate law and banking attorney, in addition to being the former President of a Government Development Bank of Puerto Rico. We're confident that his contributions will be meaningful as a member of our team.
So with that, please turn to the Slide 2. This quarter we reached a number of key milestones in improving the performance of our bank. In July, we repaid our outstanding TARP funds without raising additional equity. In August and September, we closed the sales of our Illinois and Central Florida regions.
Since then, we have refinanced a meaningful amount of high cost funding in our U.S. region, and sold a majority of the remaining U.S. legacy and classified assets. We have also reached an agreement with the FDIC over our previously disclosed arbitration, regarding our Westernbank loss sharing agreement, resolving our dispute with no meaningful financial impact to Popular.
In addition, as evidenced of the progress we have made on the credit front, we are pleased to announce that as of today the credit related MOU, which we had agreed to with our regulators in 2011, has been lifted. These accomplishments come in concert with another stable quarter for the company.
