Popular (NASDAQ:BPOP)
Q2 2014 Earnings Call
July 24, 2014 11:00 am ET
Executives
Brett Scheiner - Investor Relations Officer
Richard L. Carrin - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President, Member of Funding Committee, Member of Pricing Committee, Chairman of Banco Popular De Puerto Rico and Chief Executive Officer of Banco Popular De Puerto Rico
Carlos J. Vzquez - Chief Financial Officer, Senior Executive Vice President and President of Banco Popular North America
Lidio V. Soriano - Chief Risk Officer and Executive Vice President of Corporate Risk Management Group
Analysts
Brian Klock - Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division
Brett D. Rabatin - Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., Research Division
Ken A. Zerbe - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Alexander Twerdahl - Sandler O'Neill + Partners, L.P., Research Division
Taylor Brodarick - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division
Gerard S. Cassidy - RBC Capital Markets, LLC, Research Division
Operator
Good morning, and welcome to the Popular, Inc. Q2 2014 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to the Investor Relations Officer at Popular, Inc., Brett Scheiner. Please go ahead, sir.
Brett Scheiner
Good morning, and thank you for joining us on today's call. Today, I am joined by our Chairman and CEO, Richard Carrin; our CFO, Carlos Vzquez; and our CRO, Lidio Soriano, who will review our second quarter results and then answer your questions. They will be joined in the Q&A session by other members of our management team.
Before we start, I would like to remind you that on today's call, we may make forward-looking statements that are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release and are detailed in our SEC filings, our financial quarterly release and supplements. You may find today's press release and our SEC filings on our web page at popular.com.
I will now turn the call over to Mr. Richard Carrin.
Richard L. Carrin
Good morning, and thank you all for joining the call. I'd like to first address the highlights and key events of the second quarter, give an update of our U.S. reorganization plan and provide our latest thoughts regarding the fiscal and economic situation in Puerto Rico. Carlos will then go into greater detail on the quarter's financial results and Lidio will provide an update of credit trends and metrics.
So please turn to the second slide. In the second quarter, Popular earned adjusted net income of $86 million, in line with results for last quarter and well ahead of last year's second quarter.
Our reported GAAP results reflect the impact of 2 significant accomplishments: Our repayment of TARP, which includes a $414 million accelerated amortization expense; and our BPNA restructuring, which includes a $187 million goodwill write-down, both noncash charges. We continue to generate strong revenues, with capital levels above peer averages. Tangible book value was $35.84, down from $38.71 last quarter, driven by the previously disclosed accelerated amortization expense related to our TARP repayment, partially offset by our operating earnings for the quarter. The goodwill write-down from our U.S. restructuring had, of course, no impact on tangible book value or regulatory capital.
Our adjusted margin of 4.68% declined slightly from last quarter's 4.70%, as continued improvements in funding costs and loan yields were offset by last quarter's additional recovery income from resolutions in our loan portfolio. Our spreads remain strong relative to peers, with our Puerto Rico net interest margin up to 5.50%.
