Popular, Inc. (NASDAQ:BPOP)
Q3 2016 Earnings Conference Call 
October 25, 2016 11:00 AM ET
Executives
Brett Scheiner - IR Officer
Richard Carrion - Chairman and CEO
Carlos Vazquez - EVP & CFO
Lidio Soriano - EVP & Chief Risk Officer
Analysts
Brett Rabatin - Piper Jaffray & Co.
Brian Klock - Keefe, Bruyette & Woods
Ken Zerbe - Morgan Stanley
Gerard Cassidy - RBC Capital Markets
Alex Twerdahl - Sandler ONeill
Matthew Keating - Barclays. 
Joe Gladue - Merion Capital Group
Jesus Bueno - Compass Point
Operator
Good morning. And welcome to the Popular Inc. Third Quarter 2016 Earnings conference call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
And now I'll turn the call over to the Investor Relations Officer at Popular Inc. Brett Scheiner. 
Brett Scheiner
Good morning. And thank you for joining us on todays call. Today I am joined by our Chairman and CEO, Richard Carrion; our CFO, Carlos Vazquez; and our CRO, Lidio Soriano, who will review our third quarter results and then answer your questions. They will be joined in the Q&A session by other members of our management team.
Before we start, I would like to remind you that on todays call, we may make forward-looking statements that are based on managements current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within todays earnings press release and are detailed in our SEC filings, our financial quarterly release and supplements. You may find todays press release and our SEC filings on our webpage at popular.com.
I will now turn the call over to Mr. Richard Carrion.
Richard Carrion
Good morning. And thank you for joining the call. I'd like to address the highlights and key events of the third quarter. Then I'll present an update on our business and our thoughts regarding the fiscal and economic situation in Puerto Rico. Carlos will comment on the quarter's financial results and Lidio will provide an update of credit trends and metrics.
Please turn to Slide number 2. In the third quarter, Popular reported net income of $47 million, which includes the impact of the $55 million adverse award on the recent arbitration with the FDIC? Adjusted net income totaled $95 million, up $4 million from last quarters adjusted results. We continue to generate strong revenues with capital levels well above peer averages.
Tangible book value was $44.86, up from $44.62 last quarter. Our net interest income was down $7 million from the prior quarter. Our net interest margin of 4.12% declined from last quarters 4.33% of the result of lower yields on the Westernbank portfolio. Lower yields on increased liquidity due to high public sector deposits and slightly higher funding cost in the US. Our spreads remain strong relative to peers with our Puerto Rico net interest margin of 4.49%.
Were also encouraged by the trends in our U.S. business, particularly the continued strong commercial loan production. Total NPAs this quarter up $805 million including covered loans were down $30 million from last quarters $836 million mostly due to the PREPA sale in the quarter. 
Non-covered NPLs were $579 million or 2.6% of non-covered loans, up $2 million from last quarter. NPL inflows decreased by $6 million mainly due to reduction in Puerto Rico commercial inflows of $40 million, offset in part by an increase in Puerto Rico mortgage inflows of $8 million.
Our net charge-off were $35 million, or 63 basis points, flat to last quarter excluding a $5 million recovery in the prior period. At quarter end, available holding company liquidity stood at approximately $409 million. This liquidity position provides an access of two years debt service coverage with no maturities until 2019. The market value of our stake in EVERTEC is approximately $196 million and significantly exceeds our positions current book value of $37 million. 
