Comcast Corporation (CMCSK) Q3 2015 Earnings Conference Call October 27, 2015  8:30 AM ET
Executives
Jason Armstrong - Senior Vice President, Investor Relations
Brian Roberts - Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Michael Cavanagh - Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Stephen Burke - Senior Executive Vice President, Comcast Corporation and Chief Executive Officer, NBCUniversal
Kornelis Smit - Senior Executive Vice President, Comcast Corporation and President and Chief Executive Officer, Comcast Cable Communications
Analysts
Craig Moffett - MoffettNathanson
Ben Swinburne - Morgan Stanley
John Hodulik - UBS
Jessica Reif Cohen - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Phil Cusick - JPMorgan
Vijay Jayant - Evercore ISI
Brett Feldman - Goldman Sachs
Marci Ryvicker - Wells Fargo
Mike McCormack - Jefferies
Bryan Kraft - Deutsche Bank
James Ratcliffe - Buckingham Research
Operator
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Comcast's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. Please note that this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, Mr. Jason Armstrong. Please go ahead, Mr. Armstrong.
Jason Armstrong
Thank you, operator, and welcome everyone. Joining me on this morning's call are Brian Roberts, Mike Cavanagh, Steve Burke and Neil Smit. Brian and Mike will make formal remarks, and Steve and Neil will also be available for Q&A.
As always, let me now refer you to Slide number 2, which contains our Safe Harbor disclaimer and reminds you that this conference call may include forward-looking statements subject to certain risks and uncertainties. In addition, in this call, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to our 8-K for the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
With that, let me turn the call to Brian Roberts for his comments. Brian?
Brian Roberts
Thank you, Jason, and good morning, everyone. I am pleased to report very strong third quarter results. This is a real reflection of how well the various parts of our business are working and more importantly how well they are working together.
In the quarter, we grew revenue by 11.2% and operating cash flow by 8.4%. Our performance was broad-based with broadband, business services, film and Theme Parks leading the way.
Over in Cable Communications, our investments in our network, our X1 platform and customer service, are all paying off. Revenue and operating cash flow growth were each over 6%.
We added a 156,000 customer relationships, up over 90% from the prior year. Our video results were the best for the third quarter in nine years and our broadband results were the best for the third quarter in six years. Similar to last quarter, churn was a stand out, as we saw an improvement across every category.
We continue to push harder on X1, and have now accelerated our deployment to over 40,000 boxes per day. Roughly 25% of our video subscribers now have X1. And the reaction from our customers together with the financial benefits that we're seeing continues to indicate we should go even faster in taking that rate higher.
Encouragingly, as we get further into our base, the magnitude of favorable impacts on churn, additional outlets, VOD viewing and DVR uptake remain at a high level. In addition, there was a deep list of initiatives that are adding to our value proposition for our customers.
Last quarter we talked about launching a voice remote. Today, we've already deployed nearly 1.5 million of them. And we are confident that we have unrivaled content rights, which makes it much more important for us to facilitate the discovery of that content.
The voice remote is exactly the type of solution, and the customer feedback has been terrific. In addition, we've scaled our XFINITY on Campus offering, nearly quadrupling the number of participating universities versus last year to 26.
