Comcast Corp. (NASDAQ:CMCSA)
Q4 2016 Earnings Call
January 26, 2017 8:30 am ET
Executives
Jason S. Armstrong - Comcast Corp.
Brian L. Roberts - Comcast Corp.
Michael J. Cavanagh - Comcast Corp.
Neil Smit - Comcast Corp.
Stephen B. Burke - Comcast Corp.
Analysts
Jessica Jean Reif Cohen - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Craig Eder Moffett - MoffettNathanson LLC
Jason Boisvert Bazinet - Citigroup Global Markets, Inc.
Philip A. Cusick - JPMorgan Securities LLC
John Christopher Hodulik - UBS Securities LLC
Vijay Jayant - Evercore ISI
Marci L. Ryvicker - Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Bryan Kraft - Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Anthony DiClemente, CFA - Nomura Instinet
Brett Feldman - Goldman Sachs & Co.
Operator
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Comcast's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2016 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Please note that this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, Mr. Jason Armstrong. Please go ahead, Mr. Armstrong.
Jason S. Armstrong - Comcast Corp.
Thank you, operator, and welcome, everyone. Joining me on this morning's call are Brian Roberts, Mike Cavanagh, Steve Burke and Neil Smit. Brian and Mike will make formal remarks, and Steve and Neil will also be available for Q&A.
As a reminder, as part of the FCC's anti-collusion rules for the Broadcast Incentive Auction, we cannot discuss or answer any questions related to the auction or spectrum today.
As always, let me now refer you to slide number 2, which contains our Safe Harbor disclaimer and reminds you that this conference call may include forward-looking statements subject to certain risks and uncertainties. In addition, in this call, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to our 8-K for the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
With that, let me turn the call to Brian Roberts for his comments. Brian?
Brian L. Roberts - Comcast Corp.
Thank you, Jason, and good morning, everyone. I look back on 2016 with real pride and enthusiasm. Comcast NBCUniversal is a special company with a fantastic team working really well together, and we're executing an exceptionally high level. We had a terrific year and it ended on a real high note with our strong fourth quarter performance.
In the quarter: we added nearly 400,000 broadband subscribers; we're again Video net add positive; and we made important customer-friendly advancements, highlighted by the launch of Netflix on the X1 platform where we've seen an incredible first few months of sign-on activity and engagement.
Over at NBCUniversal, we capped off a strong 2016 with the box office success of Sing, and NBC is already off to another excellent start in the 2016-2017 TV season. So all-in-all, a great end to the year for Comcast NBCUniversal, and this provides strong momentum as we begin 2017.
For the full year 2016, we increased revenue 7.9% and operating cash flow 7%, and generated over $8 billion in free cash flow. The consistency and strength of our results enables us, with the support of our board, to announce a 15% increase in our dividend, our ninth consecutive annual increase. We are also announcing that we will split our stock 2-for-1, the 12th split in our company's history. Finally, we increased our share repurchase authorization to $12 billion and expect to repurchase $5 billion in stock in 2017.
Comcast NBCUniversal has an unrivaled portfolio of businesses that are working well together. So let me talk about some of our notable achievements in 2016, and then some of the things we're looking forward to for 2017 and beyond.
Starting with Cable, we added 161,000 Video subscribers. This is our best result and also the first time we have added Video subscribers in a decade, ending with almost 23 million strong. This is a fantastic accomplishment. To do this in the face of increasing competition and the rapid evolution in the category, speaks volumes about the team's innovative culture, focused execution, and the leadership position we've developed with X1.
