Comcast Corp. (NASDAQ:CMCSA)
Q1 2016 Earnings Call
April 27, 2016 8:30 am ET
Executives
Jason S. Armstrong - Senior Vice President-Investor Relations
Brian L. Roberts - Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Michael J. Cavanagh - Chief Financial Officer & Senior Executive Vice President
Neil Smit - President & Chief Executive Officer, Comcast Cable & Senior Executive Vice President
Stephen B. Burke - Chief Executive Officer, NBCUniversal & Senior Executive Vice President, Comcast Corp.
Analysts
Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Craig Eder Moffett - MoffettNathanson LLC
John Christopher Hodulik - UBS Securities LLC
Philip A. Cusick - JPMorgan Securities LLC
Jessica Jean Reif Cohen - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Jason Boisvert Bazinet - Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker)
Brett Feldman - Goldman Sachs & Co.
Anthony DiClemente - Nomura Securities International, Inc.
Bryan Kraft - Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Mike L. McCormack - Jefferies LLC
Vijay Jayant - Evercore ISI
Marci L. Ryvicker - Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Frank Garreth Louthan - Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Operator
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Comcast First Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Please note that this conference call is being recorded.
I would now turn the call over to Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, Mr. Jason Armstrong. Please go ahead, Mr. Armstrong.
Jason S. Armstrong - Senior Vice President-Investor Relations
Thank you, operator, and welcome, everyone. Joining me on this morning's call are Brian Roberts, Mike Cavanagh, Steve Burke, and Neil Smit. Brian and Mike will make formal remarks, and Steve and Neil will also be available for Q&A.
As a reminder, because of the FCC's anti-collusion rules for the broadcast incentive option, we cannot discuss or answer any questions related to the option or spectrum today, nor will we be commenting about recent rumors or speculation about any M&A transaction. As always, let me now refer you to slide number two, which contains our Safe Harbor disclaimer and remind you that this conference call may include forward-looking statements subject to certain risks and uncertainties. In addition, in this call, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to our 8-K for the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
With that, let me turn the call to Brian Roberts for his comments. Brian?
Brian L. Roberts - Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Thank you, Jason, and good morning, everyone. We're off to a great start in 2016. We increased revenue and operating cash flow in the first quarter, while continuing to prudently invest in the businesses to further strengthen our competitive position and drive growth.
I believe our Cable business is really differentiating itself, bolstering real innovation that is translating into the strong momentum you see in these results. We're demonstrating notable improvements in customer service, investing to put the industry's fastest Wi-Fi in homes, and to be the first to bring customers widespread access to gigabit speeds through DOCSIS 3.1 technology, and with X1, delivering a platform and a breadth of content that's unrivaled. And this quarter once again shows, our customers are responding to all of this. We increased our customer relationship growth by 36% from the first quarter of 2015 and now have achieved 50% penetration of our home's past. (2:20)
We added 53,000 video customers in the quarter, making us video net add positive over the past 12 months. This important milestone has eluded us for nearly a decade and we have now accomplished it within the context of an unprecedented pace of change in this industry, including the steady drumbeat of new competitors and new offers. Our voice remotes are the latest example of how we are differentiating ourselves in the market. In a short period of time, we've deployed six million of these new remotes. Thanks to Tony Werner and his technology team's great customer experience, we're getting wonderful feedback from our customers already.
