Comcast Corp. (NASDAQ:CMCSA)
Q3 2016 Earnings Call
October 26, 2016 8:30 am ET
Executives
Jason S. Armstrong - Comcast Corp.
Brian L. Roberts - Comcast Corp.
Michael J. Cavanagh - Comcast Corp.
Neil Smit - Comcast Corp.
Stephen B. Burke - Comcast Corp.
Analysts
Jessica Jean Reif Cohen - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Craig Eder Moffett - MoffettNathanson LLC
Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Vijay Jayant - Evercore Group LLC
John Christopher Hodulik - UBS Securities LLC
Philip A. Cusick - JPMorgan Securities LLC
Marci L. Ryvicker - Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Brett Feldman - Goldman Sachs & Co.
Jason Boisvert Bazinet - Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker)
Anthony DiClemente - Nomura Securities International, Inc.
Bryan Kraft - Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Kannan Venkateshwar - Barclays Capital, Inc.
Mike L. McCormack - Jefferies LLC
Operator
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Comcast's Third Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Please note that this conference call is being recorded.
I would now turn the call over to Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, Mr. Jason Armstrong. Please go ahead, Mr. Armstrong.
Jason S. Armstrong - Comcast Corp.
Thank you, operator, and welcome, everyone. Joining me on this morning's call are Brian Roberts, Mike Cavanagh, Steve Burke and Neil Smit. Brian and Mike will make formal remarks and Steve and Neil will also be available for Q&A.
As a reminder, as part of the FCC's anti-collusion rules for the broadcast incentive auction, we cannot discuss or answer any questions related to the auction or spectrum today. As always, let me now refer you to slide number two, which contains our Safe Harbor disclaimer and reminds you that this conference call may include forward-looking statements subject to certain risks and uncertainties. In addition, in this call, we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to our 8-K for the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
With that, let me turn the call to Brian Roberts for his comments. Brian?
Brian L. Roberts - Comcast Corp.
Thank you, Jason, and good morning, everyone. I'm pleased to report terrific operational and financial results during the third quarter. Consolidated revenue and operating cash flow were up 14% and 11%, respectively, driven by broad-based strength across the company. And for a company of our size, this is a tremendous result. From our perspective, three things stood out in the quarter: our results in video, which were the best for a third quarter in the last 10 years; in broadband, which were the best in seven years; and our successful broadcast and distribution of the Rio Olympics.
Let's start with Rio, which again validated that the Olympics are the most valuable and most consumed property in media. NBC won all 17 nights of primetime, and the NBC Sports Network was the number one sports cable network in primetime over the 14 days that it presented live coverage of the games. In fact, in the 18 to 49 demo, NBC's primetime's ratings more than quadrupled the other broadcast networks combined and were nearly five times greater with Millennials. Moreover, that lead widened versus prior Olympics. The audience for the Rio Olympics was enormous, encompassing almost 200 million Americans on television alone, not to mention those who also engaged on our other platforms.
Rio was also very strong from a financial perspective, significantly exceeding our prior results and we believe it will continue to be a big success going forward. One of the key reasons for our outstanding performance with the games is that our teams from across Comcast, NBCUniversal worked so well together. We partnered closely, innovated quickly, and as a result, delivered the most comprehensive and technologically-advanced Olympics coverage in history.
