Comcast Corporation (NASDAQ:CMCSA)
UBS Global Media & Communications Conference
December 7, 2015 10:45 ET
Executives
Mike Cavanagh - Chief Financial Officer
Analysts
John Hodulik - UBS
John Hodulik
Okay. If everyone could please take their seats, we will get going here shortly. Okay, thank you all for joining. I am very pleased to announce our next speaker is Mike Cavanagh, the President and CFO of Comcast.
Mike Cavanagh
Just CFO.
John Hodulik
I thought it said President, must have been a typo. Just CFO of Comcast. We have got it looks like about 35 minutes for questions. So Mike, why dont I start off?
Mike Cavanagh
Thanks for having us here. Pleased to be here, John. Thanks.
Question-and-Answer Session
Q - John Hodulik
We are approaching the end of 15. As we look on to 2016, can you give us a sense for what you see as the strategic priorities for Comcast next year?
Mike Cavanagh
Sure. I would say, right off the bat, I mean, the most important thing for us looking into 2016 is just to continue executing well. So, get to some of the big things we are working on strategically, but one of the things being with the team 7 months that I am most impressed with is the execution tempo of the place. So Neil Smit on the cable side, unbelievable what that team has done, when you think about the disappointments and all the time that went into preparing to do Time Warner and then to pivot well, shift gears to some other priorities, which I will get into. And then deliver the kind of results you have seen with subscriber, the improvement on subscriber side and the continued growth in broadband, best third quarter in the years in both cases. So, execution is great on the cable side, it needs to continue, and NBC with Steve Burke and the team there, knocking on the door of doubling the cash flow of the business from 5 years ago when the team acquired the business.
But to get specific and we will go through these in greater detail, but the things we are excited about cable first, so one is just to continue delivering on the customer experience. We have talked about it a lot. As I just said its a big area of pivotal focus for Neil and team to really work on sort of root causes of a lot of the things that make the experience better. So, its from billing to on-time arrival of getting it right the first time, things that  everything thats being tracked under that initiative, lots of improving trends on that score. Ultimately, shifting to focus on net promoter side with the big results that you have seen the numbers already that I think there is more room is just improvement in churn. Second thing in cable is to just drive market share. So you saw again we are on track for another year of double-digit growth in broadband revenues and nearly 20% growth in business services on the cable side. We will talk about it more, but the video side, it continues to be our goal to grow video subs on a year-over-year basis and we are really encouraged by what we are seeing there.
And then other areas where we are focused on share growth is just enterprise on the business side continuing to drive things in the wireless base with WiFi. And so lots that we are working on in the cable side and finally product there, so continuing to drive the X1 platform out into the marketplace, continuing to experiment with segmenting the marketplace and driving again more in the high-speed data side. And then on the NBC side its television, driving more retrans and affiliate fees, which we still think we are under-monetized there and we will get into it more deeply, but continue to drive the revenue stream coming off of retrans and affiliate side. You have got a big year in TV next year with the Olympics. So, we look forward in Rio to doing the same that we have done in Sochi and London last time, driving great results in the Olympics and thats also a political year. So, thats the TV side.
