Comcast Corp. (NASDAQ:CMCSA)
Q4 2015 Earnings Call
February 03, 2016 8:30 am ET
Executives
Jason S. Armstrong - Senior Vice President-Investor Relations
Brian L. Roberts - Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Michael J. Cavanagh - Chief Financial Officer & Senior EVP
Neil Smit - President & Chief Executive Officer, Comcast Cable & Senior Executive Vice President
Stephen B. Burke - Chief Executive Officer, NBCUniversal & Senior Executive Vice President
Analysts
Craig Eder Moffett - MoffettNathanson LLC
Jessica Jean Reif Cohen - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Benjamin Daniel Swinburne - Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
John Christopher Hodulik - UBS Securities LLC
Vijay Jayant - Evercore ISI
Jason Boisvert Bazinet - Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker)
Brett Joseph Feldman - Goldman Sachs & Co.
Anthony DiClemente - Nomura Securities International, Inc.
Marci L. Ryvicker - Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Bryan Kraft - Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Mike L. McCormack - Jefferies LLC
Operator
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Comcast Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. Please note that this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Senior Vice President Investor Relations, Mr. Jason Armstrong. Please go ahead, Mr. Armstrong.
Jason S. Armstrong - Senior Vice President-Investor Relations
Thank you, Operator, and welcome everyone. Joining me on this morning's call are Brian Roberts, Mike Cavanagh, Steve Burke and Neil Smit. Brian and Mike will make formal remarks and Steve and Neil will also be available for Q&A.
As always, let me now refer you to slide number two which contains our Safe Harbor disclaimer and remind you that this conference call may include forward-looking statements subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
In addition, in this call we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to our 8-K for the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP.
With that, let me turn the call to Brian Roberts for his comments. Brian?
Brian L. Roberts - Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Thanks, Jason and good morning, everyone and thank you for joining us today. 2015 was a terrific year for Comcast NBCUniversal, and I couldn't be more pleased with the strong operational performance and financial results that we delivered both for the fourth quarter and for the full year.
Honestly, 2015 was not without its challenges. But instead of letting those challenges become real distractions, our company pivoted and executed extremely well, particularly in the second half of the year. I'm so proud of our resilience and leadership team for creating the momentum that is now driving us forward in 2016.
Neil Smit and Dave Watson and everyone at Comcast Cable is heroic in my mind, for not only staying focused, but generating the best yearly video subscriber results that we've had in nine years and the best broadband subscriber results that we've had in eight years.
We ended on a high note as our fourth quarter video net additions were our strongest quarterly results since the first quarter of 2007. At the same time, we expertly balanced these great customer metrics with solid financial performance. At NBCUniversal, Steve and his team exceeded expectations once again. We set new box office records, achieved number one ratings in Broadcast from morning to primetime, to late-night. Continued the outstanding progress in our Theme Parks and sustained healthy profits at Cable Networks.
Altogether, Comcast NBCUniversal made incredible strategic operational and financial progress in 2015 and did this through a collaborative culture where our businesses are focused on strengthening themselves and each other.
Overall, we grew revenue 8.3% in 2015 and operating cash flow by 7.7%. We generated close to $9 billion in free cash flow and increased cash return to shareholders by over 40%.
