eBay, Inc. (NASDAQ:EBAY)
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
October 21, 2015 5:00 pm ET
Executives
Selim Freiha - Vice President-Investor Relations
Devin N. Wenig - President, Chief Executive Officer & Director
Scott Schenkel - Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President
Analysts
Brian Nowak - Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Carlos Kirjner-Neto - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC
Colin A. Sebastian - Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker)
Scott W. Devitt - Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Mark A. May - Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker)
Heath P. Terry - Goldman Sachs & Co.
Eric J. Sheridan - UBS Securities LLC
Justin Post - Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc.
Mark S. Mahaney - RBC Capital Markets LLC
Matt Nemer - Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Douglas T. Anmuth - JPMorgan Securities LLC
Ross Sandler - Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to eBay's Q3 2015 Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr. Selim Freiha, Vice President of Investor Relations. Sir, please begin.
Selim Freiha - Vice President-Investor Relations
Good afternoon. Thank you for joining us and welcome to eBay's earnings release conference call for the third quarter of 2015. Joining me today on the call are Devin Wenig, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Scott Schenkel, our Chief Financial Officer.
We're providing a slide presentation to accompany both Devin's and Scott's commentary during the call. We've updated the format of our presentation following the spinoff of PayPal and in anticipation of the completion of the sale of our eBay Enterprise business.
All growth rates mentioned in Devin and Scott's prepared remarks represent year-over-year comparisons unless they clarify otherwise.
This conference call is also being broadcast on the Internet and both the presentation and call are available through the Investor Relations sections of the eBay website at investors.ebayinc.com. You can visit our Investor Relations website for the latest company news and updates. In addition, an archive of the webcast will be accessible for 90 days through the same link.
Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that during the course of this conference call, we will discuss some non-GAAP measures relating to our performance. You can find the reconciliation of these measures to the nearest-comparable GAAP measures in the slide presentation accompanying this conference call.
In addition, management will make forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations, forecasts and assumptions, and involve risks and uncertainties. These statements include but are not limited to statements regarding the planned sale of our eBay Enterprise business, the future performance of eBay Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries on a standalone basis, including expected financial results for the full-year 2015, the future growth in our business, and mobile commerce.
Our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in this call for a variety of reasons. You can find more information about risks, uncertainties and other factors that could affect our operating results in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, in our subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q available at investors.ebayinc.com. You should not rely on any forward-looking statements. All information in this presentation is as of October 21, 2015, and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update this information.
With that, let me turn the call over to Devin.
Devin N. Wenig - President, Chief Executive Officer & Director
