eBay, Inc. (NASDAQ:EBAY)
Q2 2016 Earnings Call
July 20, 2016 5:00 pm ET
Executives
Selim Freiha - Vice President-Investor Relations
Devin N. Wenig - President, Chief Executive Officer & Director
Scott Schenkel - Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President
Analysts
Eric J. Sheridan - UBS Securities LLC
Heath Terry - Goldman Sachs & Co.
Carlos Kirjner-Neto - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC
Justin Post - Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc.
Mark A. May - Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker)
Mark Mahaney - RBC Capital Markets LLC
Colin A. Sebastian - Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker)
Douglas T. Anmuth - JPMorgan Securities LLC
Robert S. Peck - SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc.
Richard Kramer - Arete Research Services LLP
Brian J. Pitz - Jefferies LLC
Ronald V. Josey - JMP Securities LLC
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen. And welcome to eBay's Second Quarter 2016 Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer section and instructions will be given at that time. As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded.
I'd now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Mr. Selim Freiha, Vice-President Investor Relations. Sir, please go ahead.
Selim Freiha - Vice President-Investor Relations
Thank you, operator. Good afternoon. Thank you for joining us and welcome to eBay's earnings release conference call for the second quarter of 2016. Joining me today on the call are Devin Wenig, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Scott Schenkel, our Chief Financial Officer.
We're providing a slide presentation to accompany both Devin's and Scott's commentary during the call. All revenue and GMV growth rates mentioned in Devin and Scott's prepared remarks represent FX-neutral year-over-year comparisons unless they clarify otherwise. This conference call is also being broadcast on the Internet and both the presentation and call are available through the Investor Relations section of the eBay website at investors.eBayinc.com. You can visit our Investor Relations website for the latest company news and updates. In addition, an archive of the webcast will be accessible for 90 days through the same link.
Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that, during the course of this conference call, we will discuss some non-GAAP measures related to our performance. You can find the reconciliation of these measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in the slide presentation accompanying this conference call.
In addition, management will make forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations, forecasts and assumptions, and involve risks and uncertainties. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the future performance of eBay Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries including expected financial results for the third quarter and full-year 2016 and the future growth in our business.
Our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in this call for a variety of reasons. You can find more information about risks, uncertainties and other factors that could affect our operating results in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, copies of which may be obtained by visiting the company's Investor Relations website at investors.eBayinc.com or the SEC's website at sec.gov. You should not rely on any forward-looking statements. All information in this presentation is as of July 20, 2016, and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update this information.
With that, let me turn the call over to Devin.
Devin N. Wenig - President, Chief Executive Officer & Director
Thanks, Selim, and good afternoon, everyone. Q2 was a good quarter for us. We delivered strong top line and bottom line financial results, led by acceleration in our core eBay platform, and continued strong performance from StubHub. We made good progress on our strategy and we're starting to see some positive movement in underlying traffic and conversion metrics, driven by early versions of our new user experiences.
