eBay, Inc. (NASDAQ:EBAY)
Q4 2015 Earnings Call
January 27, 2016 4:30 pm ET
Executives
Selim Freiha - Vice President-Investor Relations
Devin N. Wenig - President, Chief Executive Officer & Director
Scott Schenkel - Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President
Analysts
Richard Kramer - Arete Research Services LLP
Mark A. May - Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker)
Heath Patrick Terry - Goldman Sachs & Co.
Carlos Kirjner-Neto - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC
Brian Nowak - Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Eric J. Sheridan - UBS Securities LLC
Kunal Madhukar - SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc.
Jim Shaughnessy - RBC Capital Markets LLC
Stan Velikov - Jefferies LLC
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the eBay, Inc. Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. As a reminder, today's program is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Selim Freiha, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
Selim Freiha - Vice President-Investor Relations
Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you for joining us and welcome to eBay's earnings release conference call for the fourth quarter of 2015. Joining me today on the call are Devin Wenig, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Scott Schenkel, our Chief Financial Officer.
We're providing a slide presentation to accompany both Devin's and Scott's commentary during the call. All revenue and GMV growth rates mentioned in Devin and Scott's prepared remarks represent FX neutral year-over-year comparisons unless they clarify otherwise.
This conference call is also being broadcast on the Internet and both the presentation and call are available through the Investor Relations sections of the eBay website at investors.ebayinc.com. You can visit our Investor Relations website for the latest company news and updates. In addition, an archive of the webcast will be accessible for 90 days through the same link.
Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that during the course of this conference call, we will discuss some non-GAAP measures related to our performance. You can find the reconciliation of these measures to the nearest-comparable GAAP measures in the slide presentation accompanying this conference call.
In addition, management will make forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations, forecasts and assumptions, and involve risks and uncertainties. These statements include, but are not limited to statements regarding the future performance of eBay Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries including expected financial results for the first quarter and full year 2016 and the future growth in our business.
Our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in this call for a variety of reasons. You can find more information about risks, uncertainties and other factors that could affect our operating results in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, in subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, copies of which may be obtained by visiting the company's Investor Relations website at investors.ebayinc.com, or the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. You should not rely on any forward-looking statements. All information in this presentation is as of January 27, 2016, and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update this information.
With that, let me turn the call over to Devin.
Devin N. Wenig - President, Chief Executive Officer & Director
Thanks, Selim, and good afternoon, everyone. Our business was stable in Q4 and we delivered solid results as we continue to reposition our business amidst the backdrop of a competitive holiday retail environment. Overall, total GMV and revenue were both up 5% for the quarter and we also grew active buyers 5% year-over-year to 162 million.
