eBay Inc. (NASDAQ:EBAY)
Q3 2014 Earnings Conference Call
October 15, 2014 5:00 PM ET
Executives
Tom Hudson - Investor Relations
John Donahoe - President and CEO
Bob Swan - CFO
Analysts
Heath Terry - Goldman Sachs
Colin Sebastian - Robert W. Baird
Ross Sandler - Deutsche Bank
Mark Mahaney - RBC Capital Markets
Eric Sheridan - UBS
Gil Luria - Wedbush Securities
Kaizad Gotla - JPMorgan
Ben Schachter - Macquarie
Mark May - Citi
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to eBays Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Tom Hudson, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
Tom Hudson 
Good afternoon. Thank you for joining us and welcome to eBay earnings release conference call for the third quarter of 2014. Joining me today on the call are John Donahoe, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Swan, our Chief Financial Officer.
We are providing a slide presentation to accompany Bobs commentary during the call. All growth rates mentioned in John and Bobs prepared remarks represent year-over-year comparisons unless they clarify otherwise. And all segments' results are adjusted for the effects of foreign currency exchange. This conference call is also being broadcast on the Internet and both the presentation and call are available through the Investor Relations section of the eBay website at investor.ebayinc.com. You can visit our Investor Relations website for the latest company news and updates. In addition, an archive of the webcast will be accessible for 90 days through the same link.
Before we begin, Id like to remind you that during the course of the conference call, we will discuss some non-GAAP measures in talking about our companys performance. You can find a reconciliation of these measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in the slide presentation accompanying the call. In addition, management will make forward-looking statements relating to the planned separation of eBay Inc.'s Marketplaces and PayPal businesses and our future performance that are based on our current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding expected financial results for the fourth quarter and for the full year 2014, the future growth in Payments, Marketplaces and eBay Enterprises businesses and the completion and timing of the planned separation.
Our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in this call for a variety of reasons. You can find more information about risks, uncertainties and other factors that could affect our operating results in the most recent Annual Report and our Form 10-K and our subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q available at our IR site. You should not rely on any forward-looking statements. All information in this presentation is as of October 15, 2014 and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update the information.
With that, let me turn the call over to John.
John Donahoe
Thanks, Tom. Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our Q3 earnings call. Our recent separation announcement underscores our commitment to deliver sustainable shareholder value. We strongly believe that separating eBay and PayPal into independently publicly traded companies best positions each business for long term success. Weve always been committed to making the right decisions at the right time to do whats best for eBay, PayPal and our shareholders. And with the decision made, our focus is on moving forward with clarity and speed to minimize distraction and capitalize on the opportunities ahead. Our priority is setting eBay and PayPal up for success as independent companies while ensuring they continue to execute well until separation occurs. Bob and I remain responsible for the financial performance of the company while working closely with Devin Wenig and Dan Schulman to create cohesive business plans for the future.
