eBay Inc. (NASDAQ:EBAY)
Q4 2016 Earnings Conference Call
January 25, 2017 5:00 PM ET
Executives
Selim Freiha  Vice President of Investor Relations
Devin Wenig  President and Chief Executive Officer
Scott Schenkel  Chief Financial Officer
Analysts
Richard Kramer  Arete Research
Colin Sebastian  Robert W. Baird
Heath Terry  Goldman Sachs
James Cakmak  Monness, Crespi, Hardt
Eric Sheridan  UBS
Justin Post  Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Douglas Anmuth  JPMorgan
Mark May  Citi
Scott Devitt  Stifel
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the eBays Fourth Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call maybe recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference to Selim Freiha, Vice President of Investor Relations. You may begin.
Selim Freiha
Thank you, operator. Good afternoon. Thank you for joining us and welcome to eBays earnings release conference call for the fourth quarter of 2016. Joining me today on the call are Devin Wenig, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Scott Schenkel, our Chief Financial Officer.
Were providing a slide presentation to accompany Scotts commentary during the call. We have also included a structure data update in the appendix. All revenue and GMV growth rates mentioned in Devin and Scotts remarks represent FX neutral year-over-year comparisons unless they clarify otherwise.
This conference call is also being broadcast on the Internet, and both the presentation and call are available through the Investor Relations section of the eBay website at investors.ebayinc.com. You can visit our Investor Relations website for the latest Company news and updates. In addition, an archive of the webcast will be accessible for 90 days through the same link.
Before we begin, Id like to remind you that during the course of this conference call, we will discuss some non-GAAP measures related to our performance. You can find the reconciliation of these measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in the slide presentation accompanying this conference call.
In addition, management will make forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties. These statements include but are not limited to statements regarding the future performance of eBay Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, including expected financial results for the first-quarter and full-year 2017 and the future growth in our business.
Our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in this call for a variety of reasons. You can find more information about risks, uncertainties and other factors that could affect our operating results in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, copies of which may be obtained by visiting the Companys Investor Relations website at investors.ebayinc.com or the SECs website at sec.gov. You should not rely on any forward-looking statements. All information in this presentation is as of January 25, 2017, and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update this information.
With that, let me turn the call over to Devin.
Devin Wenig
Thanks, Selim, and good afternoon everyone. Quarter four was a record quarter for us, highlighted by solid performance in our eBay business, which benefited from a strong market over the holiday season. Overall, total GMV was up 5% year-on-year, revenue was up 6% and active buyers grew to 167 million. GMV on our Marketplace platform grew at 5% year-on-year, one point growth acceleration while revenue grew at 4%. Our StubHub platform grew volume at 5% and our Classified platform grew revenue at 13%, another quarter of double-digit growth.
