eBay Inc. (NASDAQ:EBAY)
Q1 2015 Results Earnings Conference Call
April 22, 2015, 05:00 PM ET
Executives
Tom Hudson - VP of IR
John Donahoe - CEO, President and Director
Dan Schulman - CEO Elect of PayPal
Devin Wenig - CEO Elect of eBay
Robert Swan - CFO and SVP of Finance
Analysts
Carlos Kirjner - Bernstein
Eric Sheridan - UBS
Gil Luria - Securities
Heath Terry - Goldman Sachs
Sanjay Sakhrani - KBW
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the eBay's Q1 2015 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Tom Hudson, Vice President of Investor Relations, you may begin.
Tom Hudson
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us, and welcome to eBay's earnings release conference call for the first quarter of 2015. Joining me today on the call are John Donahoe, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Swan, Chief Financial Officer, Dan Schulman, our CEO elect of PayPal and Devin Wenig, our CEO elect of eBay.
We're providing a slide presentation to accompany Bob's commentary during the call. All growth rates mentioned in John and Bob's prepared remarks represent year-over-year comparisons, unless they clarify otherwise. This would also include Dan and Devins statements as well. In addition all segments results are adjusted for the effects of foreign currency exchange.
This conference call is also being broadcast on the Internet, and both the presentation and call are available through the Investor Relations section of eBay's website at investor.ebayinc.com. You can visit our Investor Relations website for the latest company news and updates. In addition, archive of the webcast will be accessible for 90 days through the same link.
Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that during the course of this conference call, we'll discuss non-GAAP measures in talking about our company's performance. You can find a reconciliation of those measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in the slide presentation accompanying the call.
In addition, management will make forward-looking statements relating to the planned separation of eBay Inc.'s Marketplaces and PayPal businesses, and our future performance that are based on our current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involve risks and uncertainties. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding expected financial results for the second quarter and full year 2015; a future growth in Payments, Marketplaces and eBay Enterprise businesses; the implementation, completion and timing of the planned separation.
Our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in the call for a variety of reasons. You can find more information about the risks, uncertainties and other factors that could affect our operating results in our most recent annual report or on our Form 10-K or in future quarterly reports or Form 10-Q available at the investor.ebayinc.com. You should not rely on any forward-looking statements. All information in this presentation is as of April 22, 2015 and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update this information.
With that, let me turn the call over to John.
John Donahoe
Thanks, Tom. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to our Q1 earnings call. We had a strong first quarter and despite currency headwinds pressuring topline growth, eBay and PayPal rocked to a good start for the full year. I feel very good about the focus and performance of our teams at eBay and PayPal. Each business is executing well with greater focus on operating discipline as we prepare for separation.
Joining our call today are eBay CEO Designee Devin Wenig and PayPal CEO Designee, Dan Schulman. Devin and Dan will provide more perspective on Q1 performance for eBay and PayPal respectively, as well as their views on the future opportunities and focus for each business. Bob will then provide full details on the quarter including eBay Enterprise.
