eBay (NASDAQ:EBAY)
Q4 2014 Earnings Call
January 21, 2015 5:00 pm ET
Executives
Tom Hudson - 
John J. Donahoe - Chief Executive Officer, President and Director
Robert H. Swan - Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of Finance
Analysts
Eric James Sheridan - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division
Paul A. Vogel - Barclays Capital, Research Division
Kenneth Sena - Evercore ISI, Research Division
Colin A. Sebastian - Robert W. Baird & Co. Incorporated, Research Division
Scott W. Devitt - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division
Heath P. Terry - Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Research Division
John R. Blackledge - Cowen and Company, LLC, Research Division
Operator
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the eBay's Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Tom Hudson, Vice President of Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin.
Tom Hudson
Good afternoon. Thank you for joining us, and welcome to eBay's earnings release conference call for the fourth quarter and full year 2014. Joining me today on the call are John Donahoe, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Swan, our Chief Financial Officer. We're providing a slide presentation to accompany Bob's commentary during the call. All growth rates mentioned in John and Bob's prepared remarks represent year-over-year comparisons, unless they clarify otherwise, and all segments results are adjusted for the effects of foreign currency exchange.
This conference call is also being broadcast on the Internet, and both the presentation and the call are available through the IR section of eBay's website at investor.ebayinc.com. You can visit our Investor Relations website for the latest company news and updates. In addition, an archive of the webcast will be accessible for 90 days through the same link.
Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that during the course of this conference call, we'll discuss some non-GAAP measures in talking about our company's performance. You can find a reconciliation of these measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in the slide presentation accompanying the call.
In addition, management will make forward-looking statements related to the planned separation of eBay Inc.'s Marketplaces and PayPal businesses, and our future performance that are based on our current expectations, forecasts and assumptions involve risks and uncertainties. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding expected financial results for the first quarter and full year 2015; the future growth in Payments, Marketplaces and eBay Enterprise businesses; and the completion and timing of the planned separation and the company's exploration of strategic alternatives for the Enterprise business.
Our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in the call for a variety of reasons. You can find more information about the risks, uncertainties and other factors that could affect our operating results in our most recent annual report or on our Form 10-K or in future quarterly reports or Form 10-Q available at the investor.ebayinc.com site. You should not rely on any forward-looking statements. All information in this presentation is as of January 21, 2014 (sic) [January 21, 2015], and we do not intend nor undertake no duty to update information.
With that, let me turn the call over to John.
John J. Donahoe
Thanks, Tom. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to our Q4 earnings call. In a year marked by unexpected events and distractions, our double-digit revenue growth, solid earnings growth and strong cash flow reflect the fundamental strength of our company. We have some challenges, but overall, our focus and operating discipline delivered solid company performance in a year that, quite frankly, we're glad to see come to an end.
