eBay, Inc. (NASDAQ:EBAY)
Q2 2015 Earnings Call
July 16, 2015 8:00 am ET
Executives
Tom G. Hudson - Vice President-Investor Relations
John J. Donahoe - President, Chief Executive Officer & Director
Bob Swan - Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer
Dan Schulman - President and CEO Designee, PayPal, PayPal, Inc.
Patrick Dupuis - Chief Financial Officer, PayPal, Inc.
Devin Wenig - CEO Designee, eBay
Scott Schenkel - SVP & CFO eBay Marketplaces
Analysts
Mark May - Citi Investment Research
Bryan C. Keane - Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Colin A. Sebastian - Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc. (Broker)
Carlos Kirjner-Neto - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC
Heath P. Terry - Goldman Sachs & Co.
Sanjay Sakhrani - Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc.
Matt R. Nemer - Wells Fargo Securities LLC
James E. Friedman - Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP
Operator
Good day ladies and gentlemen welcome to the eBay's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Tom Hudson, Vice President of Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin.
Tom G. Hudson - Vice President-Investor Relations
Good morning. Thank you for joining us and welcome to eBay earnings release conference call for the second quarter of 2015. Joining me today on the call are John Donahoe, our President and Chief Executive Officer; Bob Swan, our Chief Financial Officer; Dan Schulman, PayPal's President and CEO; Patrick Dupuis, PayPal's CFO; Devin Wenig, our CEO Designee; and Scott Schenkel, our CFO Designee.
We're providing a slide presentation to accompany the commentary during the call. All growth rates mentioned in the prepared remarks represent year-over-year comparisons, unless they clarify otherwise. And all segment results are adjusted for the effects of foreign currency. This conference call is also being broadcast on the Internet and both the presentation and call are available through the Investor Relations section of the eBay website at investor.ebayinc.com. You can visit our Investor Relations website for the latest company news and updates.
In addition, an archive of the webcast will be accessible for 90 days with the same link. Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that during the course of the conference call, we'll discuss some non-GAAP measures in talking about our company's performance. You can find a reconciliation of these measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in the slide presentation accompanying the call.
In addition, management will make forward-looking statements related to the planning separation of eBay Inc.'s Marketplaces and PayPal businesses, the planned sale of the Enterprise business and our future performance that are based on our current expectations, forecasts and assumptions, and involves risk and uncertainties.
These statements include, but are not limited, to the future performance of both the eBay and PayPal businesses on a standalone basis if the separation is completed including expected financial results for the full year 2015, and the completion and timing of the planned separation.
Our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in the call for a variety of reasons. You can find more information about risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could affect our operating results in our most recent Annual Report and on our Form 10-K and our subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q available at investor.ebayinc.com. You should not rely on any forward-looking statements. All information in this presentation is as of July 16, 2015 and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update the information.
