Fifth Third Bancorp (NASDAQ:FITB)
Q4 2015 Earnings Conference Call
January 21, 2016 09:00 ET
Executives
Jim Eglseder - Manager, Investor Relations
Greg Carmichael - President and Chief Executive Officer
Tayfun Tuzun - Chief Financial Officer
Lars Anderson - Chief Operating Officer
Frank Forrest - Chief Risk Officer
Jamie Leonard - Treasurer
Analysts
Brian Foran - Autonomous
Erika Najarian - BofA Merrill Lynch
Matt OConnor - Deutsche Bank
Matt Burnell - Wells Fargo Securities
David Eads - UBS
John Pancari - Evercore
Mike Mayo - CLSA
Ken Usdin - Jefferies
Operator
Good morning. My name is Juana and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Fifth Third Banks Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. Jim Eglseder, you may begin your conference.
Jim Eglseder
Thanks, Juana and good morning. Today, we will be talking with you about our fourth quarter and full year 2015 results. This discussion may contain certain forward-looking statements about Fifth Third pertaining to our financial condition, results of operations, plans and objectives. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause results to differ materially from historical performances and these statements. We have identified some of these factors in our forward-looking cautionary statement at the end of our earnings release and in other materials and we encourage you to review them. Fifth Third undertakes no obligation and would not expect to update any such forward-looking statements after the date of this call.
I am joined on the call by several people today. Our President and CEO, Greg Carmichael; CFO, Tayfun Tuzun; Chief Operating Officer, Lars Anderson; Chief Risk Officer, Frank Forrest; and our Treasurer, Jamie Leonard. During the question-and-answer period, please provide your name and that of your firm to the operator.
With that, I will turn the call over to Greg.
Greg Carmichael
Thanks, Jim and thank all of you for joining us this morning. For 2015, we reported full year net income available to common shareholders of $1.6 billion. Our full year earnings growth of 60% reflected significant returns from the sale of a portion of our Vantiv ownership and thoughtful management of our balance sheet given the uncertain pace of interest rate increases. 2015 was an important year of accomplishments and results were highlighted by return on assets of 1.22% and return on common equity of 11.3%. Despite the $94 million impact of the deposit advance product, our net interest income was relatively flat. We invest in our businesses and the talent across the organization strengthens our balance sheet and further enhanced our risk and compliance infrastructure.
Full year net interest income declined only 1% as growth otherwise offset the lost revenue from the reduction in income related to the deposit advance product. Year-over-year core fee income growth was 3%. As we grow fee income, we will seek to add capital efficient and growth-oriented products and services in order to deepen client relationships. Our intention is to reduce our dependency on more volatile spread income or complementing an already rich menu of products that we offer our clients. Along those lines, you may have seen our recent announcement regarding the hiring of a long-tenured insurance executive who have successfully grown and run and integrated bank-owned insurance program. We are excited about this business and we will explore other areas of opportunity for expansion of products and services we offer today.
As we are maintaining our focus on revenue growth, we are keeping operating leverage on the top of our priority list. While expenses were up this year, we are confident in our ability to return to positive operating leverage once the increases in our risk and compliance areas begin to flatten, which we believe will happen later this year. As we said on many occasions, we will continue to invest in our businesses while we look to partially fund those investments through savings in our core operations and investments in our future capabilities. Tayfun will cover some additional details of our investments so you can get a better idea of the impact and trajectory we are looking at. We are committed to achieving positive operating leverage and we believe we have the right plans in place to make that happen.
