Fifth Third Bancorp (NASDAQ:FITB)
Q1 2015 Earnings Call
April 21, 2015 9:00 am ET
Executives
James P. Eglseder - Manager-Investor Relations
Kevin T. Kabat - Vice Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Tayfun Tuzun - Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President
James C. Leonard - Treasurer & Senior Vice President
Frank Forrest - Executive VP, Chief Risk & Credit Officer
Analysts
Geoffrey Elliott - Autonomous Research LLP
Scott Siefers - Sandler O'Neill & Partners LP
Ken Zerbe - Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Paul J. Miller - FBR Capital Markets & Co.
Kenneth Michael Usdin - Jefferies LLC
Erika Penala Najarian - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Matthew Hart Burnell - Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Bill Carcache - Nomura Securities International, Inc.
Matthew Derek O'Connor - Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Mike L. Mayo - CLSA Americas LLC
John Pancari - Evercore Group LLC
Sameer Shripad Gokhale - Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
David Eads - UBS Securities LLC
Operator
Good morning. My name is Cheryl, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Q1 2015 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. Thank you.
Jim Eglseder, Director of Investor Relations, you may begin your conference.
James P. Eglseder - Manager-Investor Relations
Thanks Cheryl, and good morning. Today, we'll be talking with you about our first quarter 2015 results. This discussion may contain certain forward-looking statements about Fifth Third pertaining to our financial conditions, results of operations, plans and objectives. These statements involve certain risks and uncertainties. There are a number of factors that could cause results to differ materially from historical performance and these statements.
We've identified some of these factors in our forward-looking cautionary statement at the end of our earnings release and in other materials, and we encourage you to review them. Fifth Third undertakes no obligation and would not expect to update any such forward-looking statements after the date of this call.
I'm joined on the call today by several people: our CEO, Kevin Kabat; and CFO, Tayfun Tuzun; Frank Forrest, Chief Risk Officer; and Treasurer, Jamie Leonard. During the question-and-answer period, please provide your name and that of your firm to the operator.
With that, I'll turn the call over to Kevin Kabat. Kevin?
Kevin T. Kabat - Vice Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Thanks, Jim. Morning, everyone. Today, we reported first quarter net income to common shareholders of $367 million and earnings per diluted share of $0.44. Results included the impact of a $70 million positive valuation on the Vantiv warrant, a $37 million gain on the sale of TDRs and a $17 million charge related to the valuation of our Visa total return swap, which in total benefited earnings by about $0.07.
We produced solid returns with a 1.12% return on assets and a 10.3% return on equity. The environment continues to challenge banks. Combination of uneven economic growth, uncertainty around the Fed's monetary policies and the global impact of central bank actions continue to test the banks' business models. These are not new challenges, and we've discussed with you our strategies and tactics that are designed to preserve shareholder value and to grow our earnings with this background in mind.
We are very focused on investing in our businesses, our infrastructure and our talent, while we make sure that we have appropriate returns on the capital that we deploy, given the risk exposures that we manage. We're building profitable relationships with our clients and earnings returns on the capital that we dedicate to those relationships.
