Fifth Third Bancorp (NASDAQ:FITB)
Q1 2016 Earnings Call
April 21, 2016 9:00 am ET
Executives
Sameer Shripad Gokhale - Head of Investor Relations
Gregory D. Carmichael - President & Chief Executive Officer
Tayfun Tuzun - Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President
Frank R. Forrest - Executive Vice President & Chief Risk Officer
James C. Leonard - Treasurer & Senior Vice President
Lars C. Anderson - Chief Operating Officer & Executive Vice President
Analysts
Ken Usdin - Jefferies LLC
Paul J. Miller - FBR Capital Markets & Co.
Stephen Moss - Evercore ISI
David J. Long - Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Matthew Hart Burnell - Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Mike Mayo - CLSA Americas LLC
Peter J. Winter - Sterne Agee CRT
Geoffrey Elliott - Autonomous Research LLP
Terry J. McEvoy - Stephens, Inc.
Vivek Juneja - JPMorgan Securities LLC
Operator
Good morning. My name is Scott, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Q1 2016 Earnings Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you. Sameer Gokhale, Head of Investor Relations, you may begin your conference.
Sameer Shripad Gokhale - Head of Investor Relations
Thank you, Scott. Good morning, and thank you for joining us. Today, we'll be discussing our financial results for the first quarter of 2016. This discussion may contain certain forward-looking statements about Fifth Third pertaining to our financial condition, results of operations, plans and objectives. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause results to differ materially from historical performance and these statements.
We've identified some of these factors in our forward-looking cautionary statement at the end of our earnings release and in other materials, and we encourage you to review them. Fifth Third undertakes no obligation and would not expect to update any such forward-looking statements after the date of this call.
This morning, I'm joined on the call by our President and CEO, Greg Carmichael; CFO, Tayfun Tuzun; Chief Operating Officer, Lars Anderson; Chief Risk Officer, Frank Forrest; and our Treasurer, Jamie Leonard.
Following prepared remarks by Greg and Tayfun, we will open the call up to questions. As a courtesy to others, we ask that you limit yourself to one question and a follow-up, and then return to the queue if you have additional questions. We'll do our best to answer as many questions as possible in the time we have this morning. During the question-and-answer period, please provide your name and that of your firm to the operator.
With that, I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Gregory D. Carmichael - President & Chief Executive Officer
Thanks, Sameer, and thanks all of you for joining us this morning. Today, we reported first quarter net income to common shareholders of $312 million and earnings per diluted share of $0.40. We had some non-core items that added $0.03 to earnings per share in the quarter.
Our Q1 results were solid, especially considering the market volatility we experienced during the quarter. Fee income levels, including capital market fees, were stronger despite market disruptions. As you know, we have been building out our capital markets capabilities for the last few years. We're seeing our investments pay off. During the quarter, we closed on the largest M&A deal in the history of our company.
Net interest income was also stronger than expected. We benefited from low deposit betas following the December rate hike and expect to continue to manage deposit rates tightly. Given the outlook for rate, we should continue to benefit from our steady and cautious strategy with respect to rate risk management.
