Fifth Third Bancorp (NASDAQ:FITB)
Q3 2015 Earnings Call
October 20, 2015 9:00 am ET
Executives
James P. Eglseder - Manager-Investor Relations
Gregory D. Carmichael - President, Chief Operating Officer & Director
Tayfun Tuzun - Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President
James C. Leonard - Treasurer & Senior Vice President
Frank Forrest - Executive VP, Chief Risk & Credit Officer
Analysts
Erika P. Najarian - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Matthew H. Burnell - Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Scott Siefers - Sandler O'Neill & Partners LP
Kenneth M. Usdin - Jefferies LLC
Geoffrey Elliott - Autonomous Research LLP
John Pancari - Evercore ISI
Sameer S. Gokhale - Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
Paul J. Miller - FBR Capital Markets & Co.
Matthew Derek O'Connor - Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Ken Zerbe - Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
David Eads - UBS Securities LLC
Terry J. McEvoy - Stephens, Inc.
Vivek Juneja - JPMorgan Securities LLC
Marty Lacey Mosby - Vining Sparks IBG LP
Mike L. Mayo - CLSA Americas LLC
William Carcache - Nomura Securities International, Inc.
Operator
Good morning. My name is Sean. I'll be your conference operator today. At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the Fifth Third Bank's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. Thank you.
Head of Investor Relations, Mr. Jim Eglseder, you may begin your conference.
James P. Eglseder - Manager-Investor Relations
Thanks, Sean, and good morning. Today we'll be talking with you about our third quarter 2015 results. This discussion may contain certain forward-looking statements about Fifth Third, pertaining to our financial condition, results of operations, plans, and objectives. These statements involve certain risks and uncertainties, and we encourage you to review them.
There are a number of factors that could cause results to differ materially from historical performance and these statements. We've identified some of these factors in our forward-looking cautionary statement at the end of our earnings release and in other materials. Fifth Third undertakes no obligation and would not expect to update any such forward-looking statements after the date of this call.
I'm joined on the call today by several people, our President, Greg Carmichael; and CFO, Tayfun Tuzun; Frank Forrest, Chief Risk Officer; and Treasurer, Jamie Leonard. During the question-and-answer period please provide your name and that of your firm to the operator.
With that I'll turn the call over to Greg.
Gregory D. Carmichael - President, Chief Operating Officer & Director
Thanks, Jim, and thank all of you for joining us this morning. On November 1 I will officially start my tenure as the Chief Executive Officer of our company. Today we thank Kevin Kabat for his 33 years of service to this institution, the last nine years as CEO. We are grateful for his leadership during a difficult period in our company's history. His contributions will continue to build value for our shareholders.
I am looking forward to building upon Kevin's accomplishments and leading our company to become a top through-the-cycle performer in our industry. In September I had the opportunity to meet some of you. And I look forward to having frequent dialogue in the coming quarters to share my team's priorities.
We have a number of new faces who joined our senior leadership team over the last 60 days. Lars Anderson, Heather Koenig, and Tim Spence are great additions to an already strong team and have hit the ground running. By all accounts we have had a very active quarter.
During the last 30 days we've resolved three significant regulatory and compliance items. Importantly, these items were already reserved for. We are pleased to have solved these matters as we continue to focus on improving our operations, efficiency, and customer experience, which in turn will generate better returns for our shareholders.
