Fifth Third Bancorp (NASDAQ:FITB)
Barclays 2015 Global Financial Services Conference
September 17, 2015 11:15 AM ET
Executives
Tayfun Tuzun - Chief Financial Officer
Analysts
Jason Goldberg - Barclays
Jason Goldberg
Moving along next up very pleased to have Fifth Third Bancorp, which has been a long standing participant in the conference. The company benefits from having a very strong retail footprint in both the Midwest and Southeastern parts of the United States, as well as several businesses then operate on a national basis, which has kind of led to improved profitability metrics over the last several years. 
From the company, very pleased to have Tayfun Tuzun, Chief Financial Officer. Tayfun.
Tayfun Tuzun
Thank you, Jason. And thank you for your interest in Fifth Third and for joining us this morning. Here this morning Im joined actually by Greg Carmichael, who is our President and who is going to become our CEO in a few weeks and he will be able to interact with you in the coming months and quarters.
Greg has been in-charge of all of our business units since 2013. Hes been with the bank since 2003, and for the last two years he has been running all of the business units. So, which provides us a great deal of continuity in our company, but nevertheless as he is now taking to helm, we will have an opportunity to review our companys priorities, and today I will share with you some of our strategic thoughts to continue to build upon the strength of Fifth Third today.
Over the last few quarters, you have been hearing from us a message of focused investment in our company, we believe that banking is going through a period of significant change and with change comes challenge. Some of it is driven by the broad new regulatory design, which mandates systemic stability and thereby challenges our industry to operate within well-defined and narrow risk parameters, whether its mark risk, credit risk, or operational risk.
These narrow parameters, ultimately also supports sustainability of our current business models. The second factor that is challenging, the traditional banking model in a very positive way is technology, directly through its impact in our day-to-day operations; in widening the delivery channels for our products and services; and in enabling us to leverage the tremendous amount of very valuable information that we have in a business. Technology will continue to have a transforming effect in our industry.
Today and in the coming months and quarters, we will share with you our thoughts and priorities that we believe are going to preserve and build shareholder value and strengthen our company to meet these challenges. If there is one lesson that we as managers have learned during the crisis its the importance of relentless focus on through the cycle performance. Business models created for the present part of the business cycle that are not grounded in long-term fundamental value creation will outperform for a period of time, but will not increase the value for shareholders who have longer time horizons, as they are now sustainable.
I wish I could tell you that it is possible to tailor our strategy in a very timely manner to every turn of the business cycle, but it is not. Therefore sustainability has to be the key focus. Our top goal is to perform well throughout the full cycle. Strong core performance has been historical strength of our company, having said that weve built outsized exposures prior to the crisis that have impacted our performance in challenging economic conditions.
Our business priorities today are designed to balance long-term shareholder return with growth. Sustaining operational excellence is critical to our success, as we conduct our business and weve historically been a very efficient operator. That philosophy is deeply engrained in our D&A and I expect to continue to aggressively manage expenses across the company as we always have. But we also recognize the need to build out our infrastructure to meet the new regulatory expectations.
