Fifth Third Bancorp (NASDAQ:FITB)
Q2 2016 Earnings Conference Call
July 28, 2016, 9:00 am ET
Executives
Sameer Shripad Gokhale - Head, IR
Greg Carmichael - CEO
Tayfun Tuzun - CFO
Lars Anderson - COO
Frank Forrest - Chief Risk Officer
Jamie Leonard - Treasurer
Analysts
Ken Zerbe - Morgan Stanley
David Eads - UBS
Ken Usdin - Jefferies
Tim Wood - FBR & Company
Matt O'Connor - Deutsche Bank
Matt Burnell - Wells Fargo Securities
Steve Moss - Evercore
Christopher Marinac - FIG Partners
Mike Mayo - CLSA
Geoffrey Elliott - Autonomous
Kevin Barker - Piper Jaffray
Operator
Good morning. My name is Joana and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Fifth Third Bank's Q2 2016 Earnings Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions].
Thank you. Sameer Gokhale, you may begin your conference.
Sameer Shripad Gokhale
Thank you, Joana. Good morning and thank you for joining us. Today, we'll be discussing our financial results for the second quarter of 2016. This discussion may contain certain forward-looking statements about Fifth Third pertaining to our financial condition, results of operations, plans, and objectives. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause results to differ materially from historical performance and these statements.
We've identified some of these factors in our forward-looking cautionary statement at the end of our earnings release and in other materials, and we encourage you to review them. Fifth Third undertakes no obligation and would not expect to update any such forward-looking statements after the date of this call.
This morning, I'm joined on the call by our CEO, Greg Carmichael; CFO, Tayfun Tuzun; Chief Operating Officer, Lars Anderson; Chief Risk Officer, Frank Forrest; and Treasurer, Jamie Leonard.
Following prepared remarks by Greg and Tayfun, we will open the call up to questions. Let me turn the call over now to Greg for his comments.
Greg Carmichael
Thanks, Sameer, and thanks all of you for joining us this morning. As you can see on Page 3 of the presentation, we reported second quarter net income to common shareholders of $310 million and earnings per diluted share of $0.40. Some offsetting non-core items resulted in $0.01 negative impact to earnings per share in the quarter.
Since I became CEO in November of 2015, I have reaffirmed the bank's key strategic priorities. These include growing fee revenue, streamlining processes to reduce expenses, and improving our customer experience, and investing for the future in order to deliver strong results through business cycles. I believe we have the right strategies in place, our second quarter financial results reflect the progress we are making towards those goals.
Our Q2 results were solid especially considering the market volatility we experienced during the quarter. In addition, we were very pleased with the credit results. Fee income levels including corporate banking fees were also strong. As you know, we have been building out our capital markets capabilities for the last few years. We recently hired a team to further expand our M&A and strategic advisory services. Our investments are paying off as we continue to gain market share with our expanded set of differentiated products and services. Also our mortgage volume of $2.7 billion was up 53% sequentially. This represent the highest level since the third quarter of 2013.
Net interest income was relatively stable in Q2 which was in line with our expectations and guidance and our results reflect growth in commercial loans of 2% and 1% growth in security balances along with disciplined loan pricing in targeted relationship management. Origination yields in our auto loan business improved compared to Q1 reflecting our decision to originate loans more expectedly in that business. Also as we had mentioned previously, we have been managing deposit rates tightly and we expect that to continue in this environment. We have planned on managing through the extended period of low interest rates with the follow-up from Brexit we are even more confident that that was the right approach.
