Fifth Third Bancorp (NASDAQ:FITB)
Q4 2016 Earnings Conference Call
January 24, 2016 9:00 AM ET
Executives
Sameer Gokhale  Head-Investor Relations
Greg Carmichael  Chief Executive Officer
Tayfun Tuzun  Chief Financial Officer
Lars Anderson  Chief Operating Officer
Frank Forrest  Chief Risk Officer
Jamie Leonard  Treasurer
Analysts
Ken Usdin  Jefferies
Geoffrey Elliot  Autonomous Research
Erika Najarian  Bank of America/Merrill Lynch
Scott Siefers  Sandler ONeill & Partners
Ken Zerbe  Morgan Stanley
Mike Mayo  CLSA
Matt OConnor  Deutsche Bank
Kevin Barker  Piper Jaffray
Marty Mosby  Vining Sparks
Matt Burnell  Wells Fargo Securities
Operator
Good morning. My name is Larry and I will be the conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Fifth Third Bank Q4 2016 Earnings Release. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]. Thank you. Sameer Gokhale, you may begin your conference.
Sameer Gokhale
Thank you, Larry. Good morning and thank you for joining us. Today, well be discussing our financial results for the fourth quarter of 2016. This discussion may contain certain forward-looking statements about Fifth Third pertaining to our financial condition, results of operations, plans, and objectives. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause results to differ materially from historical performance and these statements. Weve identified some of these factors in our forward-looking cautionary statement at the end of our earnings release and in other materials, and we encourage you to review them. 
Fifth Third undertakes no obligation and would not expect to update any such forward-looking statements after the date of this call. Additionally, reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures we reference to in todays conference call are included in our earnings release along with other information regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures. A copy of our most recent quarterly earnings release can be accessed by the public in the Investor Relation section of our corporate website www.53.com.
This morning, Im joined on the call by our President and CEO, Greg Carmichael; CFO, Tayfun Tuzun; Chief Operating Officer, Lars Anderson; Chief Risk Officer, Frank Forrest; and Treasurer, Jamie Leonard. Following prepared remarks by Greg and Tayfun, we will open the call up to questions. 
Let me turn the call over now to Greg for his comments. Greg? 
Greg Carmichael
Thanks, Sameer and thank all of you for joining us this morning. As youll see in our results, we reported full year 2016 net income of $1.6 billion and EPS of $1.93 per share. We believe that 2016 marks an inflexion point for Fifth Third. During the year, we took a number of important steps to help position our bank to deliver superior results through business cycles and better serve our customers. In September, we announced project North Star with a specific financial goal of generating a return on tangible common equity of 12% to 14% by the end of 2019. 
For the course of the year, we invested heavily in risk management, compliance and information technology. We invested in FinTech companies such as GreenSky, ApplePie, AvidXchange, and Transactis. Were also pleased to receive a partnership with QED Investors, a leading FinTech venture capital firm. In addition, we announced the acquisition of Retirement Corporation of America, a registered investment advisor. We continue to evaluate acquisitions that would help augment fee revenue. 
Several of these investments particularly on the digital side are table stakes. Over time, we believe that these partnerships and investments will help us one; expand our delivery channels, two; enhance our digital capabilities, three; develop new process services and four; drive additional business volume. During the year, we took several actions to help improve the profitability of our bank for enhancing our ability to serve our customers. We announced the agreement with Black Knight to consolidate our existing mortgage platforms. This investment will lower our cost in resi mortgages, increase our mortgage loan origination capacity and significantly improve our customer experience. 
