Fifth Third Bancorp (NASDAQ:FITB)
Q4 2014 Earnings Conference Call
January 21, 2015 9:00 am ET
Executives
Jim Eglseder - Director IR
Kevin Kabat - Vice Chairman, CEO
Tayfun Tuzun - EVP, CFO
Frank Forrest - EVP, Chief Risk and Credit Officer
Jamie Leonard - SVP, Treasurer
Analysts
Erika Najarian - Bank of America
Matt Burnell - Wells Fargo Securities
Matt O'Connor - Deutsche Bank
Ken Zerbe - Morgan Stanley
Ryan Nash - Goldman Sachs
Ken Usdin - Jefferies
Scott Siefers - Sandler O'Neill
Thomas LeTrent - FBR
Mike Mayo - CLSA
Geoffrey Elliott - Autonomous Research
Vivek Juneja - JPMorgan
Marty Mosby - Vining Sparks
Sameer Gokhale - Janney Capital Markets
Operator
Good morning. My name is Jake and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Fifth Third Bank Q4 2014 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr. Jim Eglseder, Director of Investor Relations, you may begin your conference.
Jim Eglseder
Thanks Jake and good morning. Today, we will be talking with you about our full year and fourth quarter 2014 results.
This discussion may contain certain forward-looking statements about Fifth Third pertaining to our financial condition, results of operations, plans and objectives. These statements involve certain risks and uncertainties. There are a number of factors that could cause results to differ materially from historical performance and these statements. We have identified some of those factors in our forward-looking cautionary statement at the end of our earnings release and in other materials and we encourage you to review them. Fifth Third undertakes no obligation and would not expect to update any such forward-looking statements after the date of this call.
I am joined on the call today by several people; our CEO, Kevin Kabat and CFO, Tayfun Tuzun; Frank Forrest, Chief Risk Officer; and Treasurer, Jamie Leonard. During the question-and-answer session, please provide your name and that of your firm to the operator.
With that, I will turn the call over to Kevin Kabat. Kevin?
Kevin Kabat
Thanks Jim. Good morning everyone. In 2014, we continued to execute on our strategic plans. We posted solid results in spite of the challenging environment. Return on assets was 1.1% and return on tangible common equity was 12.2%. Net interest income increased 1% and we generated strong fee income in our core businesses. With 8% growth in card and processing revenue, 7% growth in corporate banking fee revenue and 4% growth in investment advisory fees.
Additionally, we maintained our expense discipline with expenses down 6%, while making continued investments in our business. We grew average loans 2% compared with 2013 including 9% growth in C&I and 7% growth in bank card.
We made significant progress rebuilding our commercial construction book and nearly doubled our outstanding balances over year end 2013. In addition, we grew average core deposits 8% including 10% growth in savings and money market balances and 6% growth in demand deposit balances.
We placed a strong emphasis on building full and profitable customer relationships and we are focused on aligning value provided and value received given changes in the profitability of retail products.
We believe the strength of our deposit franchise will be very significant in the coming rate cycle and the investments that we are making in our retail business are increasingly building a competitive advantage for us.
Our strong earnings contributed to the solid returns we provided our shareholders as we executed on our capital plans. We repurchased outstanding shares worth $654 million, which decreased our share count by 4% and we increased our common dividend 9% all while maintaining strong levels of capital. In total, we returned more than $1 billion in capital to shareholders while growing our tangible book value by 11% in our Tier 1 common ratio by 20 basis points.
