Fifth Third Bancorp (NASDAQ:FITB)
Q2 2015 Earnings Conference Call
July 21, 2015 9:00 AM ET
Executives
Jim Eglseder - Manager-Investor Relations
Kevin Kabat - Chief Executive Officer
Tayfun Tuzun - Chief Financial Officer
Jamie Leonard - Treasurer
Frank Forrest - Chief Risk Officer
Greg Carmichael - President, COO
Analysts
Erika Najarian - Bank of America
Scott Siefers - Sandler ONeill & Partners
Ken Zerbe - Morgan Stanley
Matt OConnor - Deutsche Bank
Ken Usdin - Jefferies
Mike Mayo - CLSA
Chris Mutascio - KBW
John Pancari - Evercore ISI
David Eads - UBS
Thomas LeTrent - FBR
Marty Mosby - Vining Sparks
Geoffrey Elliott - Autonomous
Sameer Gokhale - Janney Montgomery
Matt Burnell - Wells Fargo Securities
Operator
Good morning. My name is Angel, and Ill be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Fifth Third Bank Earnings Release Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. [Operator Instructions]. Thank you.
Jim Eglseder, Director of Investor Relations, you may begin your conference.
Jim Eglseder
Thanks Angel, and good morning. Today, well be talking with you about our second quarter 2015 results. This discussion may contain certain forward-looking statements about Fifth Third pertaining to our financial conditions, results of operations, plans and objectives. These statements involve certain risks and uncertainties and there are a number of factors that could cause results to differ materially from historical performance and these statements.
Weve identified some of these factors in our forward-looking cautionary statement at the end of our earnings release and in other materials, and we encourage you to review them. Fifth Third undertakes no obligation and would not expect to update any such forward-looking statements after the date of this call.
Im joined on the call today by several people: our CEO, Kevin Kabat; and CFO, Tayfun Tuzun; Frank Forrest, Chief Risk Officer; and Treasurer, Jamie Leonard. Also here today is our President and COO Greg Carmichael. During the question-and-answer period, please provide your name and that of your firm to the operator.
With that, Ill turn the call over to Kevin Kabat. Kevin?
Kevin Kabat
Thanks, Jim. Good morning, everybody. And thanks for joining us. As you all know, I announced my retirement as CEO that will be effective later this year. And before we get into the highlights of this quarters results, I want to take a moment to reflect on my 33 years in the banking industry, especially the last roughly 10 leading Fifth Third.
Im proud of the hard work and dedication of the very talented individuals Ive had the opportunity to work with over the years. Together weve navigated some of the most challenging times the industry has ever faced. In early 2007 when I was named CEO, we were just starting to see cracks in the foundation that ultimately turned out to be the worst crisis the industry has seen since the Great Depression.
Our decisive and early actions to build a significantly better company, that is, today positioned to operate in all environments with strong momentum going forward. Today we have very solid capital levels that support some of the highest total payout ratios of our peers. Weve made changes to how we approach our commercial business and more recently our retail business in response to the changing conditions and preferences of our customers.
Weve positioned the company well in order to effectively endure the current low-rate environment but also maintain the flexibility to accelerate growth once the economy regains full growth and rates start to rise.
Let me introduce you to Greg Carmichael, wholl take over from me as COO in November. Gregs been our Chief Operating Officer since 2006 and President and COO since 2012. Hes a very capable leader. And Im confident that under his watch, the company will continue to thrive and grow. Greg?
