Huntington Bancshares, Inc. (NASDAQ:HBAN)
Q3 2016 Earnings Call
October 26, 2016 9:00 am ET
Executives
Mark Muth - Huntington Bancshares, Inc.
Howell D. McCullough - Huntington Bancshares, Inc.
Stephen D. Steinour - Huntington Bancshares, Inc.
Daniel J. Neumeyer - Huntington Bancshares, Inc.
Analysts
R. Scott Siefers - Sandler O'Neill & Partners LP
Bob H. Ramsey - FBR Capital Markets & Co.
Steven Alexopoulos - JPMorgan Securities LLC
Ken Usdin - Jefferies LLC
Ken Zerbe - Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Operator
Good morning. My name is Ruth and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Huntington Bancshares Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. Thank you.
Mark Muth, you may begin your conference.
Mark Muth - Huntington Bancshares, Inc.
Thank you, Ruth, and welcome, everyone. I'm Mark Muth, Director of Investor Relations for Huntington. Copies of the slides we will be reviewing can be found on our IR website at www.huntington-ir.com, or by following the Investor Relations link on www.huntington.com. This call is being recorded and will be available as a rebroadcast, starting about an hour from the close of the call.
Our presenters today are Steve Steinour, Chairman, President and CEO; and Mac McCullough, Chief Financial Officer. Dan Neumeyer, our Chief Credit Officer, will also be participating in the Q&A portion of the call.
As noted on slide two, today's discussion, including the Q&A period, will contain forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on information and assumptions available at this time and are subject to changes, risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially. We assume no obligation to update such statements. For a complete discussion of risks and uncertainties, please refer to this slide and materials filed with the SEC, including our most recent forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filings.
Let's get started by turning to slide three and an overview of the financials. Mac?
Howell D. McCullough - Huntington Bancshares, Inc.
Thanks, Mark, and thanks to everyone for joining the call today. We appreciate your interest and support. Let me start by acknowledging that the third quarter was a bit noisy, but underneath the noise we are very pleased with the core financial performance.
As you know, the FirstMerit acquisition closed on August 16. Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, shareholders of FirstMerit received 1.72 shares of Huntington common stock and $5 in cash for each share of FirstMerit common stock. The aggregate purchase price was $3.7 billion, including $0.8 billion of cash, $2.8 billion of common stock and $0.1 billion of preferred stock. Huntington issued 284 million shares of common stock that had a total fair value of $2.8 billion based on the closing market price of $9.68 per share on August 15 of 2016.
We are extremely pleased with the progress we are making in bringing the two companies together as one. We believe the combination strengthens our company by improving efficiency, accelerating our long-term growth rate and driving a higher return profile. We are excited to have the opportunity to introduce our strong recognizable brand, differentiated product set, and industry-leading customer service in new geographies and to new customers. Integration is moving along as expected and our new colleagues are embracing our Fair Play philosophy and welcome culture.
Turning to slide three, let's review the financial highlights of our third quarter. Huntington recorded earnings per common share of $0.11, inclusive of $0.11 per share of significant items related to the FirstMerit acquisition, which also impacted the financial metrics I will highlight on this slide. Tangible book value per share decreased 6% from the year-ago quarter to $6.48 per share. Return on tangible common equity was 7% while return on assets was 0.58%. Except where noted, all comparisons to previous quarters are inclusive of FirstMerit. But I want to emphasize that core organic performance continued to meet our expectations.
