Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (NASDAQ:HBAN)
Q3 2013 Earnings Call
October 17, 2013 10:00 am ET
Executives
Todd Beekman - Director of Investor Relations
David S. Anderson - Interim Chief Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer, Executive Vice President and Controller
Daniel J. Neumeyer - Chief Credit Officer and Senior Executive Vice President
Stephen D. Steinour - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President, Member of Executive Committee, Chairman of The Huntington National Bank, Chief Executive Officer of The Huntington National Bank and President of The Huntington National Bank
Analysts
Erika Najarian - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division
Ken A. Zerbe - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Kenneth M. Usdin - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Keith Murray - ISI Group Inc., Research Division
Craig Siegenthaler - Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division
R. Scott Siefers - Sandler O'Neill + Partners, L.P., Research Division
Steven A. Alexopoulos - JP Morgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Bob Ramsey - FBR Capital Markets & Co., Research Division
Jon G. Arfstrom - RBC Capital Markets, LLC, Research Division
Christopher M. Mutascio - Keefe, Bruyette, & Woods, Inc., Research Division
Andrew Marquardt - Evercore Partners Inc., Research Division
Terence J. McEvoy - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
Operator
Good morning. My name is Rob, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Huntington Bancshares' Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to your host, Mr. Todd Beekman, Director of Investor Relations. Sir, please go ahead.
Todd Beekman
Thank you, Rob, and welcome. Copies of the slides of that we'll be reviewing can be found on our IR website at www.huntington-ir.com. This call is being recorded and will be available for rebroadcast starting about an hour after the closing of the call. Slides 2 and 3 note several aspects of the basis of today's presentation. I encourage you to read these, but let me point out one key disclosure. This presentation will reference non-GAAP financial measures, and in that regard, I direct you to the comparable GAAP financial measures in reconciliation to comparable GAAP financial measures within the presentation, the additional earnings material released today and related 8-K can also be found on our website.
Turning to Slide 4. Today's discussion, including the Q&A, may contain forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on information and assumptions available at this time, and are subject to change, risk and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially. We assume no obligation to update such statements. For a complete discussion of risks and uncertainties, please refer to this slide, the material filed with the SEC, including our most recent Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filings.
Now turning to today's presentation, as noted on Slide 5, participating today are Steve Steinour, Chairman, President and CEO; Dave Anderson, Interim Chief Financial Officer; and Dan Neumeyer, Chief Credit Officer. Let's get started. Dave?
David S. Anderson
Thank you, Todd. I will review our 2013 third quarter financial results then Dan will provide an update on credit; finally, Steve will give an update on household and commercial relationship growth, as well as expectations for the balance of 2013.
Turning to Slide 7, Huntington had a good third quarter. We reported net income of $178 million or $0.20 per share. This resulted in a 1.27% return on average assets and a 14% return on average tangible common equity. There were 2 significant items recorded in the third quarter that I will cover when I discuss noninterest expense.
Fully-tax equivalent revenue was $682 million, a decrease of $15 million or 2% from the year ago quarter. Net interest income declined $4 million or less than 1%. The net interest margin was 3.34%, down 4 basis points. Total average loans grew by 5%, primarily due to Automobile loan growth. Average Automobile loans grew by $2 billion or 49% because we have kept more of these loans on our balance sheet instead of selling them through securitizations. Commercial and industrial loans increased 4% even though we reduced our large corporate portfolio by over $200 million. Finally, Commercial Real Estate loans declined by 14%, but as we have been signaling over the last few quarters, the portfolio is stabilizing around $5 billion.
