Huntington Bancshares, Inc. (NASDAQ:HBAN)
Q2 2016 Earnings Call
July 21, 2016 9:00 am ET
Executives
Mark Muth - Director of Investor Relations
Howell D. McCullough - Chief Financial Officer & Senior Executive Vice President
Stephen D. Steinour - Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer
Daniel J. Neumeyer - Senior Executive Vice President & Chief Credit Officer
Analysts
Erika P. Najarian - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Bob H. Ramsey - FBR Capital Markets & Co.
Geoffrey Elliott - Autonomous Research LLP
Marty Mosby - Vining Sparks IBG LP
Bill Carcache - Nomura Securities International, Inc.
Ken Zerbe - Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Operator
Good morning. My name is Carol, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Huntington Bancshares Second Quarter Earnings Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mark Muth, Director of Investor Relations.
Mark Muth - Director of Investor Relations
Thank you, Carol, and welcome. I'm Mark Muth, Director of Investor Relations for Huntington. Copies of the slides we'll be reviewing can be found on our IR website at www.huntington-ir.com, or by following the Investor Relations link on www.huntington.com. This call is being recorded and will be available as a rebroadcast, starting about one hour from the close of the call.
Our presenters today are Steve Steinour, Chairman, President and CEO; and Mac McCullough, Chief Financial Officer. Dan Neumeyer, our Chief Credit Officer, will also be participating in the Q&A portion of today's call.
As noted on slide two, today's discussion, including the Q&A period, will contain forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on information and assumptions available at this time and are subject to changes, risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially. We assume no obligation to update such statements. For a complete discussion of risks and uncertainties, please refer to the slide and materials filed with the SEC, including our most recent forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filings.
Let's get started by turning to slide three and an overview of the financials. Mac?
Howell D. McCullough - Chief Financial Officer & Senior Executive Vice President
Thanks, Mark, and thanks, everyone, for joining our call today. We appreciate your interest and support. It's an exciting time for Huntington. We saw continued solid execution in the second quarter of 2016, built on the strong foundation and momentum demonstrated in the first quarter. We believe we have a good story to share with you this morning.
We have followed a contrarian path since 2009, focused on building a strong recognizable brand, differentiated product set and industry-leading customer service. While others have pulled back with a focus on cost-cutting, we invested on our franchise, built our Fair Play philosophy and our welcome culture. Second quarter results, again, provide proof that our strategies are working and that we are executing at a high level.
Turning to slide three, let's review the financial highlights of our second quarter. Huntington reported earnings per common share of $0.19, inclusive of $0.02 per share of significant items related to the costs associated with the integration of the pending FirstMerit acquisition. Tangible book value per share increased 9% to $7.29. Reported return on tangible common equity was 11%, while reported return on assets was 0.96%.
Fundamental trends were in line with our expectations. Compared to the second quarter of 2015, revenue grew by 1% despite an $8 million impact from net MSR activity and the realization of a $5 million gain on the securitization of auto loans in the second quarter of 2015.
