Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (NASDAQ:HBAN)
Q2 2013 Earnings Call
July 18, 2013 10:00 am ET
Executives
Todd Beekman - Director of Investor Relations
David S. Anderson - Interim Chief Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer, Executive Vice President and Controller
Daniel J. Neumeyer - Chief Credit Officer and Senior Executive Vice President
Stephen D. Steinour - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President, Member of Executive Committee, Chairman of The Huntington National Bank, Chief Executive Officer of The Huntington National Bank and President of The Huntington National Bank
Analysts
Ken A. Zerbe - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Craig Siegenthaler - Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division
Kenneth M. Usdin - Jefferies & Company, Inc., Research Division
Brian Foran - Autonomous Research LLP
Bob Ramsey - FBR Capital Markets & Co., Research Division
Erika Penala - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division
Josh Levin - Citigroup Inc, Research Division
Steven A. Alexopoulos - JP Morgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Jon G. Arfstrom - RBC Capital Markets, LLC, Research Division
Operator
Good morning, my name is Tracy, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to Huntington Bancshares Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]
Thank you. I'll now introduce and turn the call over to Mr. Todd Beekman. You may begin your conference.
Todd Beekman
Thank you, Tracy, and welcome. This is Todd Beekman, the Director of Investor Relations for Huntington. Copies of the slides that we will be reviewing can be found on our IR website at www.huntington-ir.com.
This call is being recorded and will be available for rebroadcast starting about after an hour after the close of the call. Slides 2 and 3 note several aspects of the basis of today's presentation. I encourage you to read these, but let me point out one key disclosure.
The presentation will reference non-GAAP financial measures. And in that regard, I direct you to the comparable GAAP financial measures and reconciliation of the comparable GAAP financial measures within the presentation, the additional earnings material released this morning, and the related 8-K, all of which can be found on our website.
Turning to Slide 4. Today's discussion, including the Q&A, may contain forward-looking statements, such statements are based on information and assumption available at this time and are subject to changes, risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially. We assume no obligation to update such statements. For a complete discussion of risks and uncertainties, please refer to this slide, the material we filed with the SEC, including most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filings.
Let's turn to Slide 5. Participating today are Steve Steinour, Chairman President and CEO; Dave Anderson, Interim Chief Financial Officer; and Dan Neumeyer, Chief Credit Officer.
Let's get started. Dave?
David S. Anderson
Thank you, Todd. I will review our 2013 second quarter financial results. Next, Dan will provide an update on credit. Finally, Steve will provide an update on household and commercial relationship growth, as well as expectations for the balance of 2013.
Turning to Slide 7. Huntington had a good second quarter. Results were very similar to the previous and year-ago quarter. For the second quarter, we reported net income of $151 million or earnings per share of $0.17. This resulted in a 1.08% return on assets and a 12% return on average tangible common equity. Fully-taxable equivalent revenue was $680 million, a decrease of less than 1% from the year-ago quarter. Net interest margin was 3.38%, down 4 basis points. Total average loans were up 1% over the last year-ago quarter. C&I and Automobile loans both increased by 6%. These increases were offset by a decrease in Commercial Real Estate loans of 17%.
