Huntington Bancshares Inc. (NASDAQ:HBAN)
Q3 2015 Earnings Conference Call
October 22, 2015 10:00 AM ET
Executives
Mark Muth - IR
Steve Steinour - Chairman, President and CEO
Mac McCullough - CFO
Dan Neumeyer - Chief Credit Officer
Analysts
John Pancari - Evercore ISI
Bill Carcache - Nomura
Geoffrey Elliott - Autonomous Research
Steven Alexopoulos - JP Morgan
Ken Zerbe - Morgan Stanley
Erika Najarian - Bank of America
Marty Mosby - Vining Sparks
Bob Ramsey - FBR
Peter Winter - Sterne Agee
Chris Spahr - Goldman Sachs
David Darst - Guggenheim Securities
Operator
Good morning. My name is Keith and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Huntington Bancshares Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers remarks, we will have a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Mark Muth, Director of Investor Relations. You may begin your conference.
Mark Muth
Thank you and welcome. Im Mark Muth, Director of Investor Relations for Huntington. Copies of the slides we will be reviewing can be found on our IR website at www.huntington.com. This call is being recorded and will be available as a rebroadcast starting about an hour from the close of the call.
Slides 1 and 2 note several aspects of the basis of todays presentation. I encourage you to read these but let me point out one key disclosure. This presentation will reference non-GAAP financial measures. And in that regard, I would direct you to the comparable GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations of the comparable GAAP financial measures within the presentation, the additional earnings related material we released this morning and the related Form 8-K filed today, all of which can be found on our website.
Turning to Slide 3, todays discussion, including the Q&A period, will contain forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on information and assumptions available at this time and are subject to changes, risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially. We assume no obligation to update such statements. For a complete discussion of risks and uncertainties, please refer to this slide and material filed with the SEC including our most recent forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filings.
As noted on Slide 4, the presenters today are Steve Steinour, Chairman, President and CEO; and Mac McCullough, Chief Financial Officer. Dan Neumeyer, our Chief Credit Officer will also be participating in the Q&A portion of the call.
Lets get started by turning to Slide 5. Mac?
Mac McCullough
Thanks Mark. Good morning and thank you for joining us today. We appreciate your interest in Huntington. Since 2009, weve executed a well-defined strategy designed to grow market share and share-of-wallet. We introduced our fair play philosophy, our welcome culture and became known for our strong recognized whole brand, differentiated product set and industry leading customer service. In addition we invested in our franchise, building and expanding at a time when others were focused fairly on cost cutting. We plan to continue to invest on our business, although as we have stated before we will pace our investments to manage proportion of operating leverage on an annual basis.
Our third quarter results again provide proof that our strategies are working and the investments weve undertaken over the past few years are continuing to pay off. We produced solid revenue growth despite the challenging interest rate environment. Our investments none of which are mature continue to drive future performance in revenue growth. We remain focused on disciplined execution.
For the second quarter in a row we closed the GAAP on year-to-date operating leverage and were well positioned to deliver on our commitment for positive operating leverage for the third consecutive year.
