Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (NASDAQ:HBAN)
Q4 2013 Earnings Call
January 16, 2014 10:00 am ET
Executives
Todd Beekman - Senior Vice President and Director of Investor Relations
David S. Anderson - Interim Chief Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer, Executive Vice President and Controller
Daniel J. Neumeyer - Chief Credit Officer and Senior Executive Vice President
Stephen D. Steinour - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President, Member of Executive Committee, Chairman of The Huntington National Bank, Chief Executive Officer of The Huntington National Bank and President of The Huntington National Bank
Analysts
Ken A. Zerbe - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Kenneth M. Usdin - Jefferies LLC, Research Division
Steven A. Alexopoulos - JP Morgan Chase & Co, Research Division
Bob Ramsey - FBR Capital Markets & Co., Research Division
David J. Long - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Ebrahim H. Poonawala - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division
Sameer Gokhale - Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, Research Division
Operator
Good morning, everyone. My name is Sarah, and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I'd like to welcome you all to the Huntington Bancshares Incorporated Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to our host, Mr. Todd Beekman. You may begin your conference.
Todd Beekman
Thank you, Sarah, and welcome. I'm Todd Beekman, the Director of Investor Relations for Huntington. Copies of the slides that we'll be reviewing can be found on our IR website at www.huntington-ir.com. This call is also being recorded and will be available for rebroadcast starting about an hour after the call.
Slides 2 and 3 note several aspects of the basis of today's presentation. I encourage you to read these, but let me point out one key disclosure. This presentation will reference non-GAAP financial measures, and in that regard, I direct you to the comparable GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation within the presentation, the additional earnings-related material released this morning and in our 8-K filed today, all which can be found on our website.
Turning to Slide 4. Today's discussion, including the Q&A period, may contain forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on information and assumptions available at this time and are subject to change, risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially. We assume no obligation to update such statements. For a complete discussion of risks and uncertainties, please refer to this slide, the material we filed with the SEC, including our most recent Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filings.
Now turning to today's presentation. As noted on Slide 5, participants are: Steve Steinour, Chairman, President and CEO; Dave Anderson, Interim Chief Financial Officer; and Dan Neumeyer, our Chief Credit Officer. Let's get started. Slide 6.
David S. Anderson
Thank you, Todd. I will review our 2013 fourth quarter and full year financial results. Then, Dan will provide an update on credit. Finally, Steve will give an update on household and commercial relationship growth, as well as expectations for 2014.
Turning to Slide 7. 2013 was a solid year for Huntington. For the full year, we reported net income of $639 million or $0.72 per common share. This resulted in a 1.13% return on average assets and a 12% return on average tangible common equity.
Fully tax equivalent revenue was $2.7 billion, a decrease of $99 million or 3% from last year. Net interest income increased $1 million. The net interest margin was 3.36% for 2013, which is consistent with our guidance that NIM would be in the mid-3.30s for the full year.
Total average loans grew by 4%, primarily due to growth in commercial and industrial loans, as well as auto. Average commercial and industrial loans grew by $1.2 billion or 8%. Average auto loans grew by $1.2 billion or 25% because we have kept more of these loans on our balance sheet instead of selling them through securitizations.
