Huntington Bancshares, Inc. (NASDAQ:HBAN)
Q4 2016 Earnings Conference Call
January 25, 2016, 09:00 ET
Executives
Mark Muth - Director of IR
Mac McCullough - CFO
Steve Steinour - Chairman, President & CEO
Dan Neumeyer - Chief Credit Officer
Analysts
Jon Arfstrom - RBC Capital Markets
Ken Usdin - Jefferies
Matt O'Connor - Deutsche Bank
John Pancari - Evercore ISI
Kyle Peterson - FBR Capital Markets
Scott Siefers - Sandler O'Neill & Partners
Erika Najarian - Bank of America Merrill Lynch
David Long - Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Terry McEvoy - Stephens Inc.
Kevin Barker - Piper Jaffray
Brian Klock - KBW
Operator
Welcome to the Huntington Bancshares Fourth Quarter Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mark Muth, Director of Investor Relations. 
Mark Muth
Thank you, Melissa, and welcome. I'm Mark Muth, Director of Investor Relations for Huntington. Copies of the slides we will be reviewing can be found on our IR website at www.huntington-ir.com or by following the Investor Relations link on www.huntington.com. This call is being recorded and will be available as a rebroadcast starting about one hour from the close of the call. 
Our presenters today are Steve Steinour, Chairman, President and CEO, and Mac McCullough, Chief Financial Officer. Dan Neumeyer, our Chief Credit Officer, will also be participating in the Q&A portion of the call. 
As noted on slide 2, today's discussion, including the Q&A period, will contain forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on the information and assumptions available at this time, and are subject to changes, risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially. 
We assume no obligation to update such statements. For a complete discussion of risks and uncertainties, please refer to this slide and material filed with the SEC, including our most recent forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filings. 
Let's get started by turning to slide 3 and an overview of the financials for 2016. Mac? 
Mac McCullough
Thanks, Mark, and thanks to everyone joining the call today. As always, we appreciate your interest and support. 2016 was a transformational year for Huntington. As you know, we closed the acquisition of FirstMerit in the third quarter, and much of our efforts since close has been focused on ensuring a smooth and seamless integration. We are extremely pleased with the progress we're making in bringing the two companies together as one. 
As evidenced by fourth-quarter results, we're already seeing significant benefit in our efficiency ratio and return on tangible common equity. And we are looking forward to introducing the distinctive Huntington brand to the Chicago and Wisconsin markets later this quarter, helping to accelerate our long-term growth rate. All of our colleagues are engaged and excited by the opportunities in front of us in 2017 and longer term. 
Before we move to the detailed financials, I want to provide a few quick comments on the integration. As Steve will discuss later in the call, we are ahead of schedule, as we completed a number of significant milestones in the fourth quarter. Our new colleagues are embracing our fair play philosophy and welcome culture, and they are excited to have access to Huntington's more robust product set and capabilities. 
We're very pleased with our progress thus far, but we know the work is not yet finished. We are focusing on achieving flawless execution with the conversion, resulting in minimal disruption for our customers and the acceleration of our long-term financial goals. 
With that in mind, let's move to slide 3 and discuss the full-year 2016 financials. As I mentioned, 2016 was a transformational year for Huntington, and there were acquisition-related significant items which affected bottom-line results. 
