Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (NASDAQ:HBAN)
Q1 2013 Earnings Call
April 17, 2013 10:00 am ET
Executives
Todd Beekman - Director of Investor Relations
Donald R. Kimble - Chief Financial Officer and Senior Executive Vice President
Daniel J. Neumeyer - Chief Credit Officer and Senior Executive Vice President
Stephen D. Steinour - Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer
Analysts
R. Scott Siefers - Sandler O'Neill + Partners, L.P., Research Division
Ken A. Zerbe - Morgan Stanley, Research Division
Ryan M. Nash - Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Research Division
Kenneth M. Usdin - Jefferies & Company, Inc., Research Division
Adam Chaim - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division
Josh Levin - Citigroup Inc, Research Division
Thomas Frick - FBR Capital Markets & Co., Research Division
Keith Murray - Nomura Securities Co. Ltd., Research Division
Kevin J. St. Pierre - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division
Erika  Penala - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division
Jon G. Arfstrom - RBC Capital Markets, LLC, Research Division
Craig Siegenthaler - Crdit Suisse AG, Research Division
Steven A. Alexopoulos - JP Morgan Chase & Co, Research Division
David J. Long - Raymond James & Associates, Inc., Research Division
Jack Micenko - Susquehanna Financial Group, LLLP, Research Division
Terence J. McEvoy - Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Research Division
Brian Foran - Autonomous Research LLP
Operator
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Huntington Bancshares First Quarter Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Todd Beekman, Director of Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin your conference.
Todd Beekman
Thank you, Paula, and welcome. I'm Todd Beekman, the Director of Relations -- of Investor Relations for Huntington. Copies of the slides can be reviewed -- we will be reviewing can be found on our website at www.huntington.com. This call is being recorded and will be available as a rebroadcast starting about after an hour after the call.
Please call Investor Relations at (614) 480-5676 for more information on how to access the recording or playback if you have difficulty getting copy of the slides.
Slides 2 and 3 note several aspects of the basis of today's presentation. I encourage you to read these, but let me point out one key disclosure. This presentation will reference non-GAAP financial measures. And in that regard, I direct you to the comparable GAAP financial measures and reconciliations to the comparable GAAP financial measures within the presentation, additional earnings-related material released this morning as an 8-K, that all can be found on our website.
Turning to Slide 4. Today's presentation, including the Q&A, may contain forward-looking statements, as such statements are based on information and assumptions available at the time and are subject to risks, change and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially. We assume no obligation to update such statements. For a complete discussion of the risks and uncertainties, please refer to this slide, the material filed with the SEC including our most recent Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filings.
Now turning to today's presentation. As noted on Slide 5, participating are Steve Steinour, Chairman President and CEO; Don Kimble, our Chief Financial Officer; and Dan Neumeyer, our Chief Credit Officer. Let's get started. Don?
Donald R. Kimble
Thanks, Todd, and welcome, everyone. I'll begin with a review of some the quarter's financial performance highlights and will be followed by Dan, who'll provide a brief update on credit. Steve will then wrap up with an update on our continued household and commercial relationship growth and a discussion of our 2013 expectations.
Turning to Slide 7. First quarter of 2013 was a solid start for the year for Huntington. For the quarter, we reported EPS of $0.17 per share, resulting in a 1.1% return on assets and a 12.4% return on tangible common equity.
