Huntington Bancshares Inc (NASDAQ:HBAN)
Q2 2015 Earnings Conference Call
July 23, 2015 10:00 AM ET
Executives
Mark Muth - IR
Steve Steinour - Chairman, President and CEO
Mac McCullough - CFO
Dan Neumeyer - Chief Credit Officer
Analysts
John Pancari - Evercore
Ken Zerbe - Morgan Stanley
Steven Alexopoulos - JP Morgan
Erika Najarian - Bank of America
Geoffrey Elliott - Autonomous Research
David Long - Raymond James
Scott Siefers - Sandler ONeill
Terry McEvoy - Stephens
Jon Arfstrom - RBC
Marty Mosby - Vining Sparks
Operator
Good morning. My name is Leanne and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Huntington Bancshares Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Mark Muth, Director of Investor Relations. You may begin your conference.
Mark Muth
Thank you, Leanne and welcome. Im Mark Muth, Director of Investor Relations for Huntington. Copies of the slides we will be reviewing can be found on our IR website at www.huntington.com. This call is being recorded and will be available as a rebroadcast starting about one hour from the close of the call.
Slides 1 and 2 note several aspects of the basis of todays presentation. I encourage you to read these but let me point out one key disclosure. This presentation will reference non-GAAP financial measures. And in that regard, I would direct you to the comparable GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation to the comparable GAAP financial measures within the presentation, the additional earnings related material we released this morning and the related 8-K filed today, all of which can be found on our website.
Turning to Slide 3, todays discussion, including the Q&A period, will contain forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on information and assumptions available at this time and are subject to changes, risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially. We assume no obligation to update such statements. For a complete discussion of risks and uncertainties, please refer to this slide and material filed with the SEC including our most recent forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filings.
As noted on Slide 4, the presenters today are Steve Steinour, Chairman, President and CEO; and Mac McCullough, Chief Financial Officer. Dan Neumeyer, our Chief Credit Officer will also be participating in the Q&A portion of the call today.
Lets get started by turning to Slide 5. Mac?
Mac McCullough
Thanks Mark. Good morning and thank you for joining the call today. We appreciate your interest in Huntington and we think we have good results to share with you this morning. Over the past several years, we have followed a contrarian path built around our fair play philosophy and our welcoming culture. We have strong recognizable brands and differentiated product set and industry leading customer service. In addition we have been investing in our franchise building and expanding in a time when others have been focused squarely on cost cutting.
We will continue to invest in our business although we will pace our investments to manage our positive operating leverage on an annual basis.
Our second quarter results highlighted by solid revenue growth and improved margins provide proof that our strategies are working and the investments weve undertaken over the past few years are paying off substantially.
Our investments are yet mature and should continue to drive future revenue growth and future performance improvement. We remain focused on disciplined execution and we are well positioned to finish the year strong, delivering positive operating leverage for the third consecutive year as well as improved returns for shareholders.
