Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (NASDAQ:HBAN)
Q1 2016 Earnings Conference Call
April 20, 2016 9:00 AM ET
Executives
Mark Muth  Director-Investor Relations
Mac McCullough  Chief Financial Officer
Steve Steinour  Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
Dan Neumeyer  Chief Credit Officer
Analysts
Ken Usdin  Jefferies
Scott Siefers  Sandler O'Neill and Partners
Geoffrey Elliott  Autonomous Research
Kyle Peterson  FBR
Steve Moss  Evercore
Ricky Dodd  Deutsche Bank
Kevin Barker  Piper Jaffray
Andy Stapp  Hilliard Lyons
Peter Winter  Sterne Agee
Joe Shea  Credit Suisse
Terry McEvoy  Stephens
Operator
Good morning. My name is Tracy, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Huntington Bancshares First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]
Thank you, Mr. Mark Muth, you may begin your conference.
Mark Muth
Thank you, Tracy, and welcome. I'm Mark Muth, Director of Investor Relations for Huntington. Copies of the slides, we will be reviewing, can be found on our IR website at www.huntington-ir.com or by following the Investor Relations link on www.huntington.com. This call is being recorded and will be available as a rebroadcast starting about one hour from the close of the call.
Our presenters today are Steve Steinour, Chairman, President and CEO; and Mac McCullough, Chief Financial Officer. Dan Neumeyer, our Chief Credit Officer, will also be participating in the Q&A portion of today's call.
As noted on Slide 2, today's discussion, including the Q&A period, will contain forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on information and assumptions available at this time and are subject to changes, risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially. We assume no obligation to update such statements. For a complete discussion of risks and uncertainties, please refer to this Slide and material filed with the SEC, including our most recent Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filings.
Let's get started by turning to Slide 3 and an overview of the financials. Mac?
Mac McCullough
Thanks, Mark, good morning everyone, and thank you for joining us today. We're pleased to report another quarter of solid results and believe 2016 is off to a good start. Huntington's customer centric strategy continues to deliver consistent growth in market share and share of wallet through execution of our distinctive fair play philosophy, our welcome culture and our superior customer service. Disciplined execution of our strategy and well timed investments in our businesses over the past several years are producing solid results for our shareholders, our customers, our colleagues and our communities.
Slide 3 shows some of the financial highlights for the quarter. Earnings per common share of $0.20, was up 5% from the 2015 first quarter, while tangible book value per share increased 8% to $7.12. Return on tangible common equity was 11.9%, while return on assets was 0.96%. Core fundamental trends remain strong and reflect the benefit of our strategic investments over the past several years. Year-over-year revenue growth was 7%, comprised of 8% increase in net interest income and a 4% increase in non-interest income.
We continue to believe that our ability to deliver consistent top-line growth, despite the challenging interest rate environment distinguishes Huntington from our peers. We also believe that our disciplined investment strategy combined with a focus on achieving positive operating leverage on an annual basis is proving to be a key differentiator. While we achieved positive operating leverage for the quarter, non-interest expense increased 7% year-over-year reflecting our ongoing investments including 44 new in-store branches and digital and technology investments such as our new mortgage origination platform that is currently being piloted.
