Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (NASDAQ:HBAN)
Q4 2015 Earnings Conference Call
January 21, 2016 9:00 AM ET
Executives
Mark Muth  Director-Investor Relations
Steve Steinour  Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
Mac McCullough  Chief Financial Officer
Dan Neumeyer  Chief Credit Officer
Analysts
Ken Houston  Jefferies
Steve Moss  Evercore ISI
Scott Siefers  Sandler, ONeill & Partners
Bob Ramsey  FBR
David Darst  Guggenheim Securities
Geoffrey Elliott  Autonomous Research
Andy Stapp  Hilliard Lyons
John Arfstrom  RBC Capital Markets
Terry McEvoy  Stephens
Peter Winter  Sterne Agee
Operator
Good morning. My name is Chris and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Huntington Bancshares Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]
Thank you. Mark Muth, Director of Investor Relations. You may begin your conference.
Mark Muth
Thank you, Chris. Welcome, Im Mark Muth, Director of Investor Relations for Huntington. Copies of the slides we will be reviewing can be found on our IR website at www.huntington-ir.com or by following the Investor Relations link on www.huntington.com. This call is being recorded and will be available for rebroadcast starting about an hour from the close of the call.
Our presenters today are Steve Steinour, Chairman, President and CEO; and Mac McCullough, our Chief Financial Officer; Dan Neumeyer, our Chief Credit Officer will also be participating in the Q&A portion of todays call.
As noted on Slide 1, todays discussion including the Q&A period will contain forward-looking statements such statements are based on information and assumptions available at this time and are subject to changes, risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially. We assume no obligation to update such statements. For a complete discussion of risks and uncertainties, please refer to this slide and material filed with the SEC including our most recent forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filings.
Lets get started by turning to Slide 2 into and an overview of the financials. Mac?
Mac McCullough
Thanks Mark. And good morning and thank you for joining us today. We appreciate your interest in Huntington. We have great results to share with you today and we are very pleased with how we are positioned for 2016. For the past six years, Huntingtons customer-centric strategy has resulted in growth in market share and in share of wallet through execution of our distinctive fair play philosophy, our welcome culture, and our superior customer service.
2015 was a year of continued disciplined execution of this strategy, producing solid results and delivering on our commitments to our customers, colleagues, communities and most importantly to our shareholders. We continue to invest in our colleagues and in the capabilities we need to continue to be an industry leader in customer experience, including digital, data analytics and cyber security. We also continue to optimize our custom-centric distribution strategy, including the accelerated buildout about in-store strategy in Michigan. In addition in 2015, we returned approximately $400 million of capital or more than 55% of net income to shareholders via dividends and buybacks.
Slide 2 shows some of the financial highlights for the year. Earnings per common share of $0.81, was up 13% from 2014, while tangible book value per share increased 4% to $6.91. Full year return on tangible common equity was 12.4%, which was modestly below our long-term financial goal of 13% to 15%. Return on assets was $1.01 for the full year. We are very pleased with our core fundamentals for the full year including revenue growth of 6%, average loan growth of 7% and average core deposit growth of 9%, and we delivered a positive operating leverage for the third consecutive year.
