Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (NASDAQ:HBAN)
Q4 2014 Earnings Conference Call
January 22, 2015 10:00 AM ET
Executives
Todd Beekman - Director, Investor Relations
Steve Steinour - Chairman, President and CEO
Mac McCullough - Chief Financial Officer
Dan Neumeyer - Chief Credit Officer
Analysts
Scott Siefers - Sandler ONeill
Mathew OConnor - Deutsche Bank
Bob Ramsey - FBR
Jon Arfstrom - RBC Capital Markets
Geoffrey Elliott - Autonomous Research
Erika Najarian - Bank of America
Operator
Good morning. My name is Anastasia and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Huntington Bancshares Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]. Thank you.
Todd Beekman, Director of Investor Relations, you may begin your conference.
Todd Beekman
Thank you, Anastasia and welcome. Im Todd Beekman the Managing Director of Strategy and Investor Relations for Huntington. Copies of the slides that we will be reviewing can be found on our website at huntington.com. This call is being recorded and will be available as a rebroadcast starting about an hour after the close of the call.
Slides two and three have several aspects, basis of todays presentation. I encourage you to read these, but let me point out one key disclosure. This presentation will reference non-GAAP financial measures. And in that regard, I direct you to comparable GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation to comparable GAAP financial measures within the presentation, initial earnings-related material we released this morning and related 8-K filed today, all of which can be found on our website.
Turning to slide four, todays discussion, including the Q&A period, will contain forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on information and assumptions available at this time and are subject to changes, risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially. We assume no obligation to update such statements. For a complete discussion of risks and uncertainties, please refer to this slide, material filed with the SEC including our most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filings.
As noted on slide five, presenters today are Steve Steinour, Chairman, President and CEO and Mac McCullough, Chief Financial Officer. Dan Neumeyer, Chief Credit Officer will also participate in Q&A portion of the call.
Lets get started by turning to slide six. Steve?
Steve Steinour
Thanks Todd. Id like to thank everyone on the call for joining us today. At Huntington, we enjoy a unique and advantaged position in the industry and we believe our future is bright. Were focused on executing our strategic plan and were very pleased with results we are achieving. For the past several years, weve invested in the company at a time when most of the industrys been pulling back. Weve expanded and optimized our distribution, both physical and digital. Weve invested in small business and commercial specialty lending verticals. Weve added new products such as our consumer and commercial credit cards and our new business in consumer checking accounts. And each represents just a handful of the investments weve made. Our 2014 earnings reflected results from these investments, yet significant opportunity remains as none of these investments are mature. We have a strong outlook for the future.
Slides six and seven show some of the financial highlights of the full year and the fourth quarter. Mac will go through more of the detail shortly, but I wanted to highlight a few of these items that I believe distinguish Huntington and illustrate our strategic execution.
