Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (NASDAQ:HBAN)
Q1 2015 Results Earnings Conference Call
April 22, 2015, 10:00 AM ET
Executives
Mark Muth - Director of Investor Relations
Steve Steinour - Chairman, President and CEO
Mac McCullough - Chief Financial Officer
Dan Neumeyer - Chief Credit Officer
Rick Remiker - Commercial Banking Director
Analysts
Scott Siefers - Sandler ONeill
John Pancari - Evercore Partners Inc.
Mathew OConnor - Deutsche Bank
Steven Alexopoulos - JP Morgan
Ken Zerbe - Morgan Stanley
Bob Ramsey - FBR
Erika Najarian - Bank of America
Bill Carcache - Nomura
Geoffrey Elliott - Autonomous Research
Chris Mutascio - KBW
Operator
Good morning. My name is Jackie and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Huntington Bancshares First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mark Muth, you may begin your conference.
Mark Muth
Thank you, Jackie. Welcome. Im Mark Muth, Director of Investor Relations for Huntington. Copies of the slides we will be reviewing can be found on our IR website at www.huntington.com. This call is being recorded and will be available as a rebroadcast starting about one hour from the close of the call.
Slides one and two, notes several aspects of the basis of todays presentation. I encourage you to read these, but let me point out one key disclosure. This presentation will reference non-GAAP financial measures. And in that regard, I would direct you to the comparable GAAP financial measures and a reconciliation to the comparable GAAP financial measures within the presentation, the additional earnings-related material we released this morning and the related Form 8-K filed today, all of which can be found on our IR website.
Turning to slide three, todays discussion, including the Q&A period, will contain forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on information and assumptions available at this time and are subject to changes, risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially. We assume no obligation to update such statements. For a complete discussion of risks and uncertainties, please refer to this slide and material filed with the SEC including our most recent Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filings.
As noted on slide four, the presenters today are Steve Steinour, Chairman, President and CEO of Huntington and Mac McCullough, Chief Financial Officer. Dan Neumeyer, our Chief Credit Officer and Rick Remiker, our Commercial Banking Director will also be participating in the Q&A portion of today's call.
Lets get started by turning to slide five. Steve?
Steve Steinour
Thanks Mark. I'd like to thank everyone for joining the call today. It's an exciting time for us at Huntington. Our first quarter results demonstrated the strength of our franchise and business model in a challenging external environment. We're very pleased with the results and believe that the first quarter sets us up well for the remainder of the year.
We're focused on finishing 2015 strong and positioning for continued success in 2016 and beyond. Our current focus is on improving our already strong competitive position in consumer banking, small business and middle market banking including the specialty lending verticals by improving sales execution, developing new products and deepening customer relationships through OCR.
Our commitment to smart accretive acquisitions was on display during the first quarter as we successfully completed the acquisition of Macquarie Equipment Finance. We also announced the continued enhancement of our full-service branch network in a cost-efficient manner with the addition of 43 new in-store branches in Michigan.
