Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (NASDAQ:HBAN)
Q1 2014 Earnings Conference Call
April 16, 2014 10:00 AM ET

Executives

Todd Beekman  Senior Vice President and Director-Investor Relations
Stephen D. Steinour  Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
David S. Anderson  Executive Vice President and Controller
Dan Neumeyer  Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer
Howell D. McCullough III  Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Analysts
Kevin J. St. Pierre  Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC
Ken Zerbe  Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC & Co. LLC
Tom M. Shearer  Jefferies LLC
Scott Siefers  Sandler ONeill & Partners LP
Daniel M. Delmoro  Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Bob H. Ramsey  FBR Capital Markets & Co.
Steven A. Alexopoulos  JPMorgan Securities LLC
Craig W. Siegenthaler  Credit Suisse Securities LLC
Ryan M. Nash  Goldman Sachs & Co.
Jon G. Arfstrom  RBC Capital Markets, LLC
David J. Long  Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Sameer Gokhale  Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
Geoffrey Elliott  Autonomous Research LLP


Operator
Good morning. My name is Tracy, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Huntington Bancshares First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)
Thank you. Mr. Todd Beekman, you may begin your conference.
Todd Beekman
Thank you, Tracy and welcome. This is Todd Beekman, Director of Investor Relations for Huntington. Copies of the slides that well be reviewing can be found on our IR website at www.huntington-ir.com. And this call is being recorded, and will be available for rebroadcast about an hour after the close of the call.
Slides 2 and 3 note several aspects of basis of presentation. I encourage you to read these. Let me point out one key disclosure. This presentation will reference non-GAAP financial measures, and in that regard, I would direct you to the comparable GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation to those comparable financial measures within the presentation, and additionally, earnings-related material can be found this morning and in Form 8-K filed today, all which can be found on our website.
Turning to Slide 4, todays discussion, including the Q&A may contain forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on information and assumptions available at this time and are subject to change risk and uncertainties, which may cause results to differ materially. We assume no obligation to update such statements. For a complete discussion of risks and uncertainties, please refer to this slide, the material we filed with the SEC, including our most recent forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filings.
Now turning to todays presentation. As noted on Slide 5, the presenters today are: Steve Steinour, Chairman, President and CEO; Dave Anderson, Executive Vice President and Controller; Dan Neumeyer, our Chief Credit Officer, who will also be participating in the Q&A portion of our call and Mac McCullough who has recently joined us as our CFO, is here with us today. So lets get started. Dave?
David S. Anderson
Turning to Slide 6, Huntington had a good first quarter. We reported net income of $149 million or $0.17 per share. This resulted in a 1.01% return on average assets and in 11.3% return on average tangible common equity. We also achieved positive operating leverage and continue to be committed to having positive operating leverage for the full year. There were two significant items recorded in the first quarter that I will cover when I discuss noninterest expense.
Fully-tax equivalent net interest income was $443 million, an increase of $13 million or 3% from the year-ago quarter. This increase was due to a larger balance sheet partially offset by a decrease in the net interest margin. Average loans grew by $2.6 billion or 6%. Commercial and industrial loans grew by 4%, auto loans grew by 40% and residential mortgage loans grew by 8%.
