Huntington Bancshares, Inc. (NASDAQ:HBAN)
Q3 2014 Results Earnings Conference Call
October 17, 2014 10:00 AM ET
Executives
Todd Beekman - Managing Director of Strategy and IR
Steve Steinour - Chairman, President and CEO
Mac McCullough - Chief Financial Officer
Dan Neumeyer - Chief Credit Officer
Analysts
Scott Siefers - Sandler ONeill & Partners
Bob Ramsey - FBR
Erika Najarian - Bank of America
Ken Zerbe - Morgan Stanley
Steven Alexopoulos - JPMorgan
Ken Usdin - Jefferies
Dan Delmoro - Deutsche Bank
Jon Arfstrom - RBC Capital Markets
Geoffrey Elliott - Autonomous Research
Chris Mutascio - KBW
Operator
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Sally and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Huntington Bancshares Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions). Thank you.
Mr. Todd Beekman, you may begin your conference.
Todd Beekman
Thank you, Sally, and welcome. Im Todd Beekman, the Managing Director of Strategy and Investor Relations for Huntington. Copies of our slides that we will be reviewing can be found on our IR website at www.huntington.com. This call is being recorded and will be available for rebroadcast starting about an hour after the call.
Slide two and three note several aspects of the basis of todays presentation. I encourage you to read these, but let me point out one key disclosure. This presentation will reference non-GAAP financial measures. And in that regard, I would direct you to the comparable GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation to those comparable GAAP financial measures within the presentation, the initial earnings-related material we released this morning and related 8-K filed today, all of which can be found on our website.
Turning to slide four, todays discussion, including the Q&A, will contain forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on information and assumptions available at this time and are subject to change, risk and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially. We assume no obligation to update such statements. For a complete discussion of the risks and uncertainties, please refer to this slide, the material filed with the SEC including our most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filings.
Now turning to todays presentation. As note on slide five, presenters today will be Steve Steinour, Chairman, President and CEO; Mac McCullough, our Chief Financial Officer; Dan Neumeyer, our Chief Credit Officer will also be participating in the Q&A portion of the call.
Lets get started. Steve?
Steve Steinour

Thank you for joining us today. Huntington had a solid third quarter with the underlying results showing continued disciplined execution. Investments weve made over the last several years are paying off. This is demonstrated by top-line revenue growth, continued balance sheet growth and what we view as industry leading customer growth. This quarter, you also saw us take steps to optimize not only our organization, but the digital distribution.
For the quarter, we reported net income of $155 million, a 13% decrease from the year-ago quarter and EPS of $0.18 per common share. This represented a 0.97 return on assets and a nearly 10% return on equity. Its worth noting that this quarters results included two significant items that totaled $22.8 million of non-interest expense. Mac and I will provide more comments in a few minutes, but there are additional details on slides 22 and 23.
Revenue increased 5% from the prior year. Net interest income increased $42 million or 10% year over year, while non-interest income decreased modestly. Net interest income year-over-year benefited from two items. Our investments in our auto and commercial segments drove a $4.1 billion, or 10% increase in loans and we added nearly $2.7 billion of incremental securities as we prepared for the upcoming Basel III Liquidity Coverage Ratio or LCR rules. The benefit of the larger balance sheet was partially offset by 14 basis-point decrease in net interest margin driven by tighter loan spreads and inability to materially re-price deposits lower and a larger securities portfolio, again as we prepared for the upcoming Basel III LCR rules.
