Huntington Bancshares Inc (NASDAQ:HBAN) 
Q2 2014 Results Conference Call
July 18, 2014 / 10:00 A.M. E.T.
Executives
Todd Beekman  Managing Director of Strategies & IR
Steve Steinour  Chairman, President and CEO
Mac McCullough  CFO
Dan Neumeyer  Chief Credit Officer
Analysts
Erika Najarian  BofA Merrill Lynch
Scott Siefers  Sandler O'Neill & Partners
Steven Alexopoulos  JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Ken Zerbe  Morgan Stanley
Bill Carcache  Nomura Asset Management
Bob Ramsey  FBR & Co.
Keith Murray  ISI Group
Ken Usdin  Jefferies & Company
Terry McEvoy  Sterne, Agee & Leach
Chris Mutascio  Keefe, Bruyette & Woods
Chip Dixon  DISCERN
Jon Arfstrom  RBC Capital Markets - Analyst
Operator
Good morning. My name is Tiffany. I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Huntington Bancshares second-quarter earnings conference call.
(Operator Instructions)
Todd Beekman, you may begin your conference.
Todd Beekman
Thank you, Tiffany, and welcome. I'm Todd Beekman, Managing Director of Strategies and Investor Relations for Huntington. Copies of the slides that we will be reviewing can be found on our IR website at Huntington.com. This call is being recorded and be available for rebroadcast starting about an hour after the close of the call.
Slides 2 and 3 note several aspects of the basis of today's presentation. I encourage you to read these, and only point out one key disclosure. The presentation will reference non-GAAP financial measures. In that regard, I direct you to the comparable GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation to the comparable GAAP financial measures within the presentation, the earnings-related material released this morning, and the 8-K filed today, all of which can be found on our website.
Turning to Slide 4, today's discussion, including the Q&A period, may contain forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on information and assumptions available at this time and are subject to change, risk and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially. We assume no obligation to update these statements. For a complete discussion of the risks and uncertainties, please refer to this slide, the material filed with the SEC, and our most recent Form K, 10-Q and 8-K filings.
Turning to Slide 5, the presenters today are Steve Steinour, Chairman, President and CEO; Mac McCullough, our CFO; Dan Neumeyer, our Chief Credit Officer, will all be participating in the Q&A portion.
Let's get started, turning to Slide 6. Steve?
Steve Steinour
Thank you for joining us today. Huntington had a great second quarter. We executed our strategies and delivered strong results. The industry is dealing with the challenging environment, but this is a quarter when many of our cylinders were firing and demonstrates how many of the investments we've made over the last several years are paying off. We reported net income of $165 million, a 9% increase from the year-ago quarter, and EPS of $0.19 per common share, or a 12% year-over-year increase. This represented a 107% return on average assets and a nearly 12.5% return on tangible common equity. Fully taxable equivalent revenue increased $33 million, or 5% year over year.
Net interest income increased $35 million, or 8% year over year, while non interest income remained relatively flat, despite the $11 million headwind in mortgage banking. Net interest income benefited from two items. Our investments in our auto and commercial segments drove a $3.8 billion, or 9% increase, in loans. And we had to add nearly $2.6 billion of incremental securities as we prepare for the upcoming Basel III Liquidity Coverage Ratio or LCR rules. The benefit of the larger balance sheet was partially offset by a 10-basis point decrease in the net interest margin.
